study of Sorg H, Knobloch K. Quantitative evaluation of the requirements for the promotion as associate professor at German medical faculties. GMS Zeitschrift für Medizinische Ausbildung. 2012;29(5).:
Quantitative evaluation of the requirements for the promotion as associate professor at German Medical Faculties Heiko Sorg*,1 and Karsten Knobloch1 Author information Article notes Copyright and License information PMC Disclaimer Go to: Abstract Background: First quantitative evaluation of the requirements for the promotion as associate professor (AP) at German Medical Faculties Material and methods: Analysis of the AP-regulations of German Medical Faculties according to a validated scoring system, which has been adapted to this study. Results: The overall scoring for the AP-requirements at 35 German Medical Faculties was 13.5±0.6 of 20 possible scoring points (95% confidence interval 12.2-14.7). More than 88% of the AP-regulations demand sufficient performance in teaching and research with adequate scientific publication. Furthermore, 83% of the faculties expect an expert review of the candidate´s performance. Conference presentations required as an assistant professor as well as the reduction of the minimum time as an assistant professor do only play minor roles. Conclusion: The requirements for assistant professors to get nominated as an associate professor at German Medical Faculties are high with an only small range. In detail, however, it can be seen that there still exists large heterogeneity, which hinders equal opportunities and career possibilities. These data might be used for the ongoing objective discussion.
Methods Inquiries of the regulations to become an associate professor (AP) The AP-regulations have been downloaded of the respective internet sites of the different German Medical Faculties or have been ordered and sent via e-mail. In the case that special information could not be gained from the regulations, medical faculties have again been contacted via e-mail or telephone for respective details. Using this technique 35 out of 36 (97%) AP-regulations could be included into this evaluation. In one case, the authors could not obtain the regulation neither electronically nor via telephone as the respective document must be used as an internal university document for assistant professors only. The following seven parameters are preconditions for the appointment of an AP at German Medical Faculties, which have been analyzed, evaluated and described. The regulations have been evaluated with special interest to the quality of the performance of the candidates. The respective criteria have been summarized in groups of similar requirements and have then been assessed with a simple scoring system with increasing precision of the information or requirement description as similarly published recently [3], [4]. Herein, the AP-regulation of the medical faculties could reach scores between 0 and 20 points. The single parameters have been assessed according to the following system: 1. scientific publication 0 points: no detailed information available 1 point: no information of necessary numbers 2 points: information on quality ± published in appropriate scientific journals or listed in current contents 3 points: information on authorship and quality ± preferably as single author or manuscripts with creativity that attest scientific competence 4 points: information on authorship and quality ± sufficient and/or adequate quantity of publications in renowned international scientific journals ± 6-12 original articles in renowned international scientific journals 5 points: detailed information on quantity, quality and authorships ± 10 publications, thereof 6 as first author in peer reviewed journals ± 8-10 high ranked original articles predominantly as first author ± 10 publications as first author, thereof 5 in renowned scientific peer reviewed journals ± 12 original articles, 8 first authorships, impact factor 10 in renowned scientific peer reviewed journals 2. research performance 0 points: no detailed information available 1 point: unclear description of achieved research work 2 points: qualified research work or successful research for several years 3 points: qualified research work with raised third-party funds 4 points: qualified research work with raised third-party funds and presentation of future research projects and possible perspectives at the respective institution in research and teaching 3. teaching activity 0 points: no detailed information available or optional documentation 1 point: documentation without specifications 2 points: with quality requirements (successful in teaching) 3 points: with quantitative requirements such as one semester with documentation of at least 15h lecture activity 4 points: with quantitative requirements such as several semesters with at least 4 semesters required courses or 4 years of active practical activity in teaching 5 points: with quantitative requirements such as several semesters and additional evaluation of the didactic ability by students or faculty members 4. scientific conference presentations /posters 0 points: no detailed information on scientific presentations or posters 1 point: list on scientific presentations or posters 2 points: detailed list on scientific presentations or posters with information on quantity, quality and authorship or specification on the five most important presentations 5. reduction of the minimum time as an assistant professor 0 points: no reduction possible or no description 1 point: the reduction of the minimum time as an assistant professor is possible by being listed on the nomination list to a full university professorship or other excellent or extraordinary achievements 6. recommendation of candidates by faculty members 0 points: recommendation is not necessary; application by candidate itself is possible 1 point: the recommendation of respective candidates by one or more members of the faculty is expected 7. evaluation of the capabilities being an associate professor 0 points: no evaluation necessary or no detailed information available 1 point: evaluation by to internal reviewers of the faculty 2 points: evaluation by several reviewers, thereof one reviewer has to be from another university or medical school (external review) Go to: Results The AP-regulations of all 35 German Medical Faculties in 2010 have been 3.7±0.6 years old; with the oldest one being 15 years old and four faculties presented actual regulations from the year 2010. From the 35 included AP-regulations 7 have been valid for the entire university (20%), while the majority (n=28) has been especially designed for medical faculties (80%). The total score for the requirements to become an associate professor at German Medical Faculties is 13.5±0.6 (95% confidence interval 12.2 – 14.7), while three faculties could reach 19 of 20 possible scoring points. Six faculties have reached only scores of equal or less than 10 points. Associate professorship requirements The 35 included AP-regulations of German Medical Faculties have been analyzed and scored for seven main items as summarized in table 1 (Tab. 1) [5]. In agreement with all analyzed actual regulations, only the criterion of a respective teaching activity has been designated by all medical faculties (100%). In 94% candidates mandatorily need adequate research achievements. 88% of all German Medical Faculties demand respective scientific publications [5]. Furthermore, 29 out of 35 medical faculties claim an evaluation of the candidates and at 24 locations (69%) the candidate may only apply for a nomination with a recommendation of a faculty member. Scientific presentations are mentioned in 46% as an additional requirement for the nomination. Reduction of the minimum time as an assistant professor is possible at 16 medical faculties after second to third place listing on the nomination list in an appointment process for a full university professorship. An external file that holds a picture, illustration, etc. Object name is ZMA-29-69-t-001.jpg Table 1 Requirements for the promotion as an associate professor at German Medical Faculties in 2010 (n=35). scientific publication. In only two AP-regulations the respective publication activity is not mentioned in detail (5,7%). Most of the medical faculties (51%) could reach the highest score value (5 points) in this category, with detailed information on quantity, quality and first or last authorships (see table 2 (Tab. 2)). On average 8±3 publications (95% confidence interval 9 – 8) are requested of the assistant professors for a successful application in the respective minimum time. These publications should include 6±1 first or last authorships. An external file that holds a picture, illustration, etc. Object name is ZMA-29-69-t-002.jpg Table 2 Quantitative presentation of the scoring points for the evaluation of the requirements of scientific publication, research performance and teaching activity. n=number of faculties research performance. Three medical faculties (8.6%) do not give any information on the required research work (0 points) and in seven AP-regulations (20%) only imprecise information is given (1 point; 20%). After reaching successful postdoctoral lecture qualification or nomination for an assistant professorship, eight medical faculties (22.9%) claim ongoing scientific work for several years. Detailed information on the respective research performance with successful raise of third-party funds is given in 31.4%. Four medical faculties additionally demand a perspective concept on future research and teaching performance of the candidates at the respective institutions (5 points; see table 2 (Tab. 2)). teaching activity. The actual evaluation of the teaching activity in the included AP-regulations feature detailed information on form, extent and content of the required teaching modalities for becoming an associate professor. While ten years ago only ten medical faculties (28%) have given some information on the minimum teaching qualifications, the actual analysis of the AP-regulations reveals, that specific information is given in more than 80% (n=28) of the regulations, reaching score values of ≥3 (see table 2 (Tab. 2)). At most of the medical faculties the candidates are allowed to perform every kind of teaching (lectures, seminars, practical courses). At six medical faculties, the AP-regulations claim an additional evaluation of the lectures by students or other faculty members (see table 2 (Tab. 2)). The minimum time requirements, however, differ substantially and are markedly increased at some universities since the year 2000 [2], ranging from 1.5 to 4 semester periods per week (SPW). At some medical faculties, candidates, which act predominantly in patient care, are allowed to reduce the minimum SPW by 50%. In addition, one medical school demands the further education in didactics. A further criterion for a successful teaching performance is the mentoring of doctorate or diploma theses. At 21 medical faculties this is a favored or demanded issue, correlating with an increase of 87.5% in comparison to the year 2000 data [2], [5]. scientific conference presentation/posters. An additional criterion for the successful nomination of an associate professor are scientific presentations or posters. 54.3% of medical faculties do not attach importance on the active participation on scientific congresses or meetings (see figure 1 (Fig. 1)). In other respects, at 16 medical faculties a (detailed) listing of all oral or poster presentations is required for the AP-application. An external file that holds a picture, illustration, etc. Object name is ZMA-29-69-g-001.jpg Figure 1 Further criteria: necessity of scientific presentations, possibility of reducing the minimum time as an assistant professor and necessity of the recommendation by a faculty member. n= number of faculties. reduction of the minimum time for the nomination as an associate professor. The nomination of an associate professor can be invested from universities to persons, who have shown outstanding performance and qualifications. The nomination requires a successful and independent performance in research and teaching over several years. After the nomination for an assistant professor or reaching postdoctoral lecture qualification, German Medical Faculties expect different minimum times before these candidates may apply for the associate professor nomination, averaging 4.5±0.3 years (95% confidence interval 3.8 – 5.8). This period of time might be reduced for candidates, which have shown extraordinary scientific performance at 54.3% of German Medical Faculties. This is especially the case, if the candidates have been listed on the nomination list in an appointment process for a full university professorship (secundo et tertio loco). Furthermore, it can also be reduced, when an outstanding scientific price could be won in the area of expertise or in medicine in general. This may reduce the time by four years. At one medical school, the AP-regulations point out that the rejection of a first place listing (primo loco) in an appointment process might directly lead to the nomination as an associate professor. recommendation of candidates by faculty members. At 25 medical faculties (28.6%) assistant professors, which have fulfilled the respective requirements, are not allowed to apply for the AP-nomination. The application process may only start by a recommendation of members or representatives of the faculty or full university professors. These persons are requested to write a recommendation letter or favor the candidates with corresponding documents for the AP-nomination. In all other faculties the candidates are allowed to hand in all documents which are required for the nomination process on their own (see figure 1 (Fig. 1)). evaluation of the capabilities being an associate professor. The abilities and performance for assistant professors, which apply for the nomination to become an associate professor, have to be evaluated by reviewers at most medical faculties. An evaluation is not necessary or is not described in the AP-regulations (0 points) at five medical faculties. The evaluation of the candidates by internal reviewers only, is necessary at three faculties (1 point). The majority (n=27), however, requires an evaluation process, which is supported by an external reviewer from a different university. On average 2±1 reviewers have to evaluate the candidates, focusing not only on the required issues, but also on the general ability for a nomination as an associate professor.
study of Uijtdehaage S, O'Neal C. A curious case of the phantom professor: mindless teaching evaluations by medical students. Medical Education. 2015 Sep;49(9):928-32.
CONTEXT Student evaluations of teaching (SETs) inform faculty promotion decisions and course improvement, a process that is predicated on the assumption that students complete the evaluations with diligence. Anecdotal evidence suggests that this may not be so. OBJECTIVES We sought to determine the degree to which medical students complete SETs deliberately in a classroom-style, multiinstructor course. METHODS We inserted one fictitious lecturer into each of two pre-clinical courses. Students were required to submit their anonymous ratings of all lecturers, including the fictitious one, within 2 weeks after the course using a 5-point Likert scale, but could choose not to evaluate a lecturer. The following year, we repeated this but included a portrait of the fictitious lecturer. The number of actual lecturers in each course ranged from 23 to 52. RESULTS Response rates were 99% and 94%, respectively, in the 2 years of the study. Without a portrait, 66% (183 of 277) of students evaluated the fictitious lecturer, but fewer students (49%, 140 of 285) did so with a portrait (chi-squared test, p < 0.0001). CONCLUSIONS These findings suggest that many medical students complete SETs mindlessly, even when a photograph is included, without careful consideration of whom they are evaluating and much less of how that faculty member performed. This hampers programme quality improvement and may harm the academic advancement of faculty members. We present a framework that suggests a fundamentally different approach to SET that involves students prospectively and proactively.
METHODS We inserted one fictitious lecturer into the evaluation forms for two 8-week, pre-clinical, classroomstyle courses (for the Year 2 class of 2010 and the Year 1 class of 2011). We gave these ‘lecturers’ gender-ambiguous names (e.g. ‘Pat Turner’, ‘Chris Miller’) that were distinct from existing names, and added generic lecture titles (e.g. ‘Introduction, Lung Disease’) (Table 1). Students were required to submit their anonymous ratings of all lecturers, including the fictitious ones, within 2 weeks after the course using our online evaluation system CoursEval (ConnectEDU, Inc., Boston, MA, USA). Students were asked to use a 5-point Likert scale (1 = not effective, 5 = very effective) to respond to the question: ‘Please rate the effectiveness of this faculty member’s teaching.’ Optionally, students were able to add written comments on a lecturer’s teaching. Students could choose not to evaluate a lecturer by marking the option ‘Not Applicable’. The following year, we repeated this process (in the classes of 2011 and 2012), but also included a small portrait (150 9 150 pixels) of an attractive young model who, perhaps regretfully, did not resemble any of our faculty members. The number of actual lecturers in each course ranged from 23 to 52, most of whom were depicted in portraits of similar dimensions in our evaluation system. Our electronic system reminded students automatically to complete the evaluations (up to seven times, as necessary) as the deadline for evaluations approached without revealing their identity to administrators. Classroom attendance was voluntary and typically around 75%. Lectures (sound and slides) were made available through podcasts. The University of California Los Angeles Office of Human Research Protection Programme deemed this study exempt from requirements for full institutional review board review as the study was designed not to meet the definition of human subject research as per federal regulations. RESULTS Response rates were 99% and 94%, respectively, in the 2 years of the study. Table 1 lists the numberswho were listed with or without a portrait. Using the full range of the Likert scale, 66% (183 of 277 students) evaluated the fictitious lecturer without a portrait; the remaining 34% (94 students) appropriately chose the option ‘N/A’. The following year, when the lecturer’s name was accompanied by a portrait, fewer students (49%, 140 of 285 students) evaluated the instructor’s effectiveness and 51% chose not to. This was a significant drop compared with the previous year (v2 = 16.50, p < 0.0001). We found, however, an interaction between medical school class and portrait condition, suggesting that a cohort effect may, in part, explain this drop. The class of 2011 (which participated in both years of the study) showed no difference between the noportrait and portrait conditions: 88 of 143 students submitted evaluations when no portrait was provided, and 81 of 145 students did so when a portrait was provided. A handful of students even went so far as to provide comments on the performance of the fictitious lecturers. Although three students explicitly stated that they did not recall the lectures but wished they had (‘I don’t think we had this lecture but it would have been useful!’), three other students confabulated: ‘She provided a great context’; ‘Lectures moved too fast for me’, and ‘More time for her lectures’.
study of Valipour Khajehghyasi R, Sadeghimahalli F, Mohammadi M, Shafia S. Evaluation of Teaching Professional Ethics of Professor from the Viewpoint of medical and pharmacy students of Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences. jmed 2021; 15 (4) :224-233 
URL: http://jmed.ssu.ac.ir/article-1-1156-en.html Evaluation of Teaching Professional Ethics of Professor from the Viewpoint of medical and pharmacy students of Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences Roghayeh Valipour Khajehghyasi   , Forouzan Sadeghimahalli *   , Moslem Mohammadi   , Sakineh Shafia Professor assistant in Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran , sadeghi.f.ph@gmail.com Abstract:   (1426 Views) Introduction: Since education is a profession and is the foundation of sustainable human development, the observance of professional ethics in teaching and/or education will lead to the realization of educational goals in universities. Therefore, the present study or the purpose of evaluating the professional ethics of the teaching of professors from the Viewpoint of medical and pharmacy students was conducted in Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences. Methods: The present study is descriptive cross-sectional. The study population included all medical and pharmacy professional doctoral students entering the 99-98 Iranian academic year in which 118 people were randomly selected. The data collection tool was the professional ethics questionnaire of Professor prepared by Sobhaninejad et al. That was in the form of 6 components and 48 items.The scoring scale of the items was based on the Likert five-choice scale from one to five. Data were analyzed by descriptive statistics (frequency, mean and standard deviation) and analytical statistics (single group t-test and independent t-test) using SPSS21 statistical software. Result: The total score of teachers 'professional ethics from the students' point of view was 3.59±0.63 and there was no significant difference (p = 0.231) between the views of male (3.5±0.65) and female (3.65±0.61) students. The results of comparing the components of teaching between students of the two fields showed that score of components of standard evaluation and learner cognition from views of medical students were higher than pharmacy students. Conclusion: Although the total average score obtained by the professional ethics of teaching professors in the two schools was at an average and relatively desirable level, is still far from the desired and standard situation and needs more planning by educational planners in order to improve the level of professional ethics of teaching. Keywords: Professional Ethics, Teaching, Professors, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences
study of: Arrona-Palacios A, Okoye K, Camacho-Zuñiga C, Hammout N, Luttmann-Nakamura E, Hosseini S, Escamilla J. Does professors' gender impact how students evaluate their teaching and the recommendations for the best professor?. Heliyon. 2020 Oct 1;6(10).
Method 2.1 Participants The sample was comprised of faculty professors and students (from their first semester to their last semester of their careers) from a private university in Mexico. Even though this private university has several campuses across Mexico, in this study, only data generated by campuses in the north region of the country were analyzed (Tampico, Monterrey, Saltillo, Laguna, Chihuahua, and Ciudad Juarez). A total of 103,833 surveys were answered by students during three semesters: January–May 2017 (28,091 surveys), August–December 2017 (47,120 surveys), and January–May 2018 (28,622 surveys). The surveys were administrated at the end of the semesters before the classes had ended. Furthermore, a total of 5,083 faculty members were evaluated: 1,522 from January–May 2017; 2,110 from August–December 2017, and 1,541 from January–May 2018. The survey covered six schools, namely: Engineering and Science, Architecture and Design, Medicine and Health Sciences, Humanities and Education, Social Sciences and Government, and Business; with a total of 78 departments and 1,082 courses. The inclusion criteria considered for this sample was the following: those students who completed the survey at a 100 percent. Informed consent was obtained from all individual participants included in the study, as well as the inform consent of the school administrators for obtaining access to this data. In addition, the research project was approved by the Institutional Research and Ethics Review Committee from the Office of the Vice President for Research and Technology Transfer from Tecnologico de Monterrey, and it complied with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki of research on human participants. 2.2 ECOA evaluation For this study, the Student Opinion Survey (ECOA, for its acronym in Spanish: Encuesta de Opinión de Alumnos) was used. Otherwise known as the Students Evaluation of Teaching (SET) (Boring, 2017), it is a survey designed and applied in Spanish which collects opinions from university students about their professors' performance with regards to the quality of the courses delivered, the competencies of their professors, and the academic services offered across the different campuses (Dirección de Servicios Académicos, 2018). The ECOA is an institutional survey elaborated and owned by the private university and has been used for several years within the university for the evaluation of the professors' performance. It has been validated in previous studies (Ayala-Hernández, 2013; Galván-Salinas and Farías-Martínez, 2018; Montemayor-Gallegos, 2002) and has shown good scale reliability with a Cronbach's alpha value of 0.89 (Montemayor-Gallegos, 2002). In the current study, the overall scale reliability statistics indicated that Cronbach's alpha was 0.97. The evaluation criteria of the ECOA include seven questions that assess different aspects of the professors’ performance: (1) methodology and learning activities used by the professor during the course; (2) applied concepts taught in terms of their application in the real world; (3) their advising role; (4) the evaluation and grading throughout the semester; (5) the applied intellectual challenge in teaching; and (6) the learning guidance offered by the professor, and (7) the question: “Would you recommend this professor to other students as the best professor?” The answers were recorded trough an eleven-point Likert-type scale and scored from 0 to 10, where 0 meant dreadful and 10 meant exceptional. 2.3 Data analysis A Chi-squared test was used to analyze the distribution of the professors' gender for the different semesters, campuses and schools. Furthermore, a multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) was executed to know the differences between the professors' gender (female and male) and the university schools (six schools described above) as independent variables and the ECOA evaluation criteria scores (the first seven items described above) as dependent variables. A hierarchical regression analysis was applied to determine the prediction effect of the student's recommendation for the best professor considering the ECOA evaluation scores and the professors' gender. The Statistical Program for the Social Sciences (version 25) (IBM Corp., Armonk, NY) was used to perform the analysis. 3 Results Table 1 shows the distribution of the professors’ gender for the different semesters, campuses, and schools. The chi-squared test showed no significant difference in the gender distribution with respect to the semesters, (χ2(2) = 2.298, p = 0.317), but a significant difference in gender distribution on the six different campuses (χ2(5) = 20.980, p < 0.001). This means that there are more male professors than female ones across all the campuses. Noteworthy are the small campuses, like Ciudad Juarez and Tampico, where the number of male professors was about double that of the female professors. The number of male professors is also larger across most of the schools, except for the School of Architecture and Design and the School of Humanities and Education (χ2(5) = 254.574, p < 0.001). In the latter, the number of female professors doubled the number of male professors. Gender	χ2	Total Female	Male Semesters Semester Jan–May 2017	669 (44.0)	853 (56.0)	2.29	1522 Semester Aug–Dec 2017	981 (46.5)	1129 (53.5)	2110 Semester Jan–May 2018	660 (45.5)	791 (54.5)	1451 Campuses Tampico	32 (31.7)	69 (68.3)	20.98∗∗∗	101 Monterrey	1994 (46.6)	2547 (53.4)	4280 Saltillo	88 (39.1)	137 (60.9)	225 Laguna	92 (39.1)	143 (60.9)	235 Chihuahua	57 (48.7)	60 (51.3)	117 Ciudad Juarez	47 (37.6)	78 (62.4)	125 Schools Engineering and Science	652 (35.4)	1192 (64.6)	254.57∗∗∗	1844 Architecture and Design	208 (51.9)	193 (48.1)	401 Medicine and Health Sciences	351 (48.5)	373 (51.5)	724 Humanities and Education	530 (67.2)	259 (32.8)	789 Social Sciences and Government	141 (34.7)	265 (65.3)	406 Business	428 (46.6)	491 (53.4)	919 Total	2310	2773	5083 Table 1 Distribution (n and %) of professors’ gender across the three semesters, campuses, and schools. ∗∗∗p < 0.001. Open table in a new tab Concerning the multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA), it shows a significant but slight difference in the ECOA evaluation scores considering gender. The results reported that, in general, female professors obtained slightly higher scores from their students than male professors in all the measured criteria of the ECOA (Tables 2 and 3). Moreover, no significant differences were found in the ECOA scores considering the university schools. Finally, no interaction effect between gender and university schools was found (Table 3). Gender	Total Female	Male Methodology and learning activities	Engineering and Science	8.88 ± 0.88	8.82 ± 0.93	8.85 ± 0.91 Architecture and Design	8.90 ± 0.80	8.82 ± 0.88	8.85 ± 0.85 Medicine and Health Sciences	8.90 ± 0.89	8.81 ± 0.92	8.84 ± 0.91 Humanities and Education	8.87 ± 0.87	8.77 ± 1.02	8.81 ± 0.96 Social Sciences and Government	8.95 ± 0.88	8.72 ± 1.05	8.81 ± 0.99 Business	8.88 ± 0.91	8.74 ± 1.05	8.81 ± 0.99 Total	8.89 ± 0.88	8.79 ± 0.98	8.83 ± 0.94 Concepts in terms of their application in real world scenario	Engineering and Science	9.02 ± 0.79	8.95 ± 0.84	8.98 ± 0.81 Architecture and Design	9.05 ± 0.70	8.96 ± 0.79	8.99 ± 0.76 Medicine and Health Sciences	9.05 ± 0.77	8.93 ± 0.83	8.97 ± 0.81 Humanities and Education	9.00 ± 0.76	8.90 ± 0.91	8.94 ± 0.85 Social Sciences and Government	9.06 ± 0.74	8.86 ± 0.96	8.94 ± 0.89 Business	9.03 ± 0.80	8.89 ± 0.97	8.96 ± 0.90 Total	9.03 ± 0.78	8.92 ± 0.88	8.97 ± 0.84 Adviser	Engineering and Science	9.22 ± 0.73	9.15 ± 0.79	9.18 ± 0.76 Architecture and Design	9.29 ± 0.61	9.15 ± 0.76	9.20 ± 0.71 Medicine and Health Sciences	9.21 ± 0.76	9.13 ± 0.84	9.16 ± 0.81 Humanities and Education	9.24 ± 0.68	9.10 ± 0.90	9.16 ± 0.81 Social Sciences and Government	9.26 ± 0.66	9.08 ± 0.92	9.15 ± 0.83 Business	9.23 ± 0.76	9.10 ± 0.89	9.16 ± 0.83 Total	9.23 ± 0.72	9.12 ± 0.84	9.17 ± 0.79 Evaluation system	Engineering and Science	9.07 ± 0.79	9.00 ± 0.81	9.03 ± 0.80 Architecture and Design	9.10 ± 0.72	9.01 ± 0.79	9.04 ± 0.77 Medicine and Health Sciences	9.08 ± 0.84	9.01 ± 0.82	9.04 ± 0.83 Humanities and Education	9.07 ± 0.76	8.96 ± 0.93	9.01 ± 0.86 Social Sciences and Government	9.12 ± 0.71	8.93 ± 0.93	9.00 ± 0.86 Business	9.11 ± 0.77	8.94 ± 0.95	9.02 ± 0.88 Total	9.09 ± 0.77	8.97 ± 0.87	9.02 ± 0.83 Intellectual challenge	Engineering and Science	9.02 ± 0.78	9.06 ± 0.74	9.04 ± 0.76 Architecture and Design	9.07 ± 0.66	9.03 ± 0.73	9.04 ± 0.71 Medicine and Health Sciences	9.05 ± 0.76	9.03 ± 0.80	9.03 ± 0.78 Humanities and Education	9.02 ± 0.77	8.99 ± 0.88	9.00 ± 0.83 Social Sciences and Government	9.09 ± 0.66	8.98 ± 0.88	9.02 ± 0.81 Business	9.01 ± 0.81	9.00 ± 0.85	9.01 ± 0.84 Total	9.03 ± 0.77	9.02 ± 0.81	9.03 ± 0.79 Learning guide	Engineering and Science	9.05 ± 0.87	9.00 ± 0.91	9.02 ± 0.90 Architecture and Design	9.08 ± 0.76	9.00 ± 0.81	9.03 ± 0.79 Medicine and Health Sciences	9.04 ± 0.88	9.00 ± 0.90	9.02 ± 0.89 Humanities and Education	9.06 ± 0.82	8.95 ± 0.95	9.00 ± 0.90 Social Sciences and Government	9.10 ± 0.82	8.89 ± 1.09	8.97 ± 1.00 Business	9.07 ± 0.86	8.94 ± 0.99	9.00 ± 0.93 Total	9.06 ± 0.85	8.97 ± 0.95	9.01 ± 0.91 Recommend the professor	Engineering and Science	8.76 ± 1.14	8.73 ± 1.19	8.74 ± 1.17 Architecture and Design	8.77 ± 1.08	8.72 ± 1.13	8.74 ± 1.11 Medicine and Health Sciences	8.73 ± 1.23	8.72 ± 1.21	8.72 ± 1.22 Humanities and Education	8.75 ± 1.17	8.69 ± 1.24	8.71 ± 1.21 Social Sciences and Government	8.82 ± 1.21	8.64 ± 1.19	8.71 ± 1.20 Business	8.78 ± 1.18	8.65 ± 1.29	8.71 ± 1.24 Total	8.77 ± 1.16	8.69 ± 1.2	8.73 ± 1.19 Table 2 Professors scores in seven criteria included in the SET according to their gender and their university schools. Open table in a new tab Gender (1,13345)	Schools (6,13345)	Gender ∗ Schools (6,13345) F	p	ηp2	F	p	ηp2	F	p	ηp2 Methodology and learning activities	35.303	<.001	0.003	1.041	.39	0.000	1.777	.09	0.001 Concepts in terms of their application in real world scenario	44.394	<.001	0.003	0.977	.49	0.000	1.452	.19	0.001 Adviser	49.098	<.001	0.004	0.384	.60	0.000	1.403	.20	0.001 Evaluation system	44.353	<.001	0.003	0.304	.43	0.000	1.92	.07	0.001 Intellectual challenge	6.152	<.01	0.000	0.979	.43	0.000	2.06	.06	0.001 Learning guide	28.889	<.001	0.002	0.397	.88	0.000	2.12	.06	0.001 Recommend the professor	13.175	<.001	0.001	0.253	.95	0.000	1.473	.18	0.001 Table 3 Statistical data (Fs, signification level and partial eta-square) on each variable according to the gender of the professors and the university schools. Open table in a new tab For the hierarchical regression analysis, we check the multi-collinearity through the variance inflation factor values (VIF) where all the values were below 10. This, according to Hair et al. (1995), is considered to be the maximum level of VIF. The criterion p-value for significance was < 0.05. Considering the predictor variable, the recommendation of the professor revealed that the almost all ECOA evaluation scores contributed significantly to the regression model: F (6, 5069) = 5530.38, p < 0.001, accounting for 86% of the variance (Table 4). The model explained that professors with good methodology and learning activities, teaching concepts by using real-world applications, using a valid assessment system, and offering learning guidance were positively recommended by the students as the best professors. On the contrary, if they incorporate difficult intellectual challenges, it correlated negatively with the recommendation of the students as the best professors. Beta	t	R2	Δ R2 Step 1 Methodology and learning activities	0.38	25.26∗∗∗	0.86	0.86 Concepts in terms of their application in the real world	0.07	5.57∗∗∗ Adviser	-0.01	-0.07 Evaluation system	0.10	9.69∗∗∗ Intellectual challenge	-0.08	-8.40∗∗∗ Learning guide	0.48	30.53∗∗∗ Step 2 Methodology and learning activities	0.38	25.37∗∗∗	0.87	0.87 Concepts in terms of their application in the real world	0.07	5.66∗∗∗ Adviser	0.03	0.21 Evaluation system	0.10	9.87∗∗∗ Intellectual challenge	-0.09	-8.68∗∗∗ Learning guide	0.48	30.35∗∗∗ Professors' gender	0.02	4.44∗∗∗ Table 4 Hierarchical regression analysis on students' recommendations for the best professor considering ECOA evaluation criteria and the professors’ gender. Notes: Professors' gender: 0 = female and 1 = male. ∗p < 0.05, ∗∗∗p < 0.001. Open table in a new tab Moreover, the professors’ gender contributed to the regression model: F (7, 5068) = 4783.43, p < 0.001, improving it slightly to account for 87% of the variance. The beta values (or coefficients for the equation of regression) showed that being a female was practically invariant, but being a male professor was a factor favoring the student recommendation for the best professor. This finding provides an insight that while students believed that their female professors are equally competent in all measured values, they seem to favor male professors over their female peers slightly when it comes to overall judgment of the professor and addressing the question of "Would you consider the professor as one of the best professors you have had?”
study of Kavosi Z, Nasab SB, Yusefi AR. Professors’ valuation criteria from the perspective of students of Shiraz University of Medical Sciences using Shannon’s Entropy technique in 2016. Strides in Development of Medical Education. 2017 Sep 30;14(3).
Professors’ Valuation Criteria from the Perspective of Students of Shiraz University of Medical Sciences Using Shannon’s Entropy Technique in 2016 Zahra Kavosi,1 Sayad Bayat Nasab,2 and Ali Reza Yusefi2,* 1Health Human Resources Research Center, School of Management and Information Sciences, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, IR Iran 2 Student Research Committee, School of Management and Medical Informatics, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, IR Iran * Corresponding author: Ali Reza Yusefi, Student Research Committee, School of Management and Medical Informatics, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, IR Iran. E-mail: alirezayusefi67@gmail.com Received 2017 February 15; Revised 2017 July 22; Accepted 2017 August 03. Abstract Background and Objectives: One of the ways to assess professors is through evaluation by students. This is one of the most challenging methods, with many people for and against it. The present study aimed to weigh existing evaluation criteria in the form of students’ evaluation of professors at Shiraz University of Medical Sciences. Methods: The present descriptive-analytical cross-sectional study was conducted with 240 students of Shiraz University of Medical Sciences in 2016 - 17. Data were collected using a six-criterion questionnaire. Questionnaires were distributed among students by the researcher through the schools’ education units and then collected. Data were statistically analyzed using SPSS. Weighing criteria were done by Shannon’s entropy method in Excel. Results: Of the six evaluation criteria, “Attracting students’ attention” weighed the most (0.2087 out of 1), followed by “Use of interactive and new teaching methods” (0.2049), “Ability to make the subject understood and motivate” (0.1728), “Punctuality” (0.1727), “Proper communication” (0.1546), and “Proper planning” (0.0863). Conclusions: Attention to basic criteria in students’ evaluation of professors is highly important, and this kind of evaluation is only useful when evaluation questionnaires are reviewed by students and include important points and become a part of an extensive and systematic evaluation program for the progress of faculty members.
The present descriptive-analytical cross-sectional study was conducted with the aim of weighing professors’ assessment criteria from the perspective of nonpostgraduate students of Shiraz University of Medical Sciences in 2016 - 17. The study population included all students of Shiraz University of Medical Sciences in the first half of the academic year of 2016 - 17 who had completed their first academic semester at least. Given the nature of the present study, and based on the views expressed by the statistics consultant, sample size was established to be 240 students using rule of thumb. For allocation of the samples, first, a category was formed from schools based on number of students. Samples were distributed over schools by stratified sampling appropriate for the population size, and 240 students were chosen from 10 schools. Students were randomly selected from each school according to their student number and using a table of random numbers. 2 Strides Dev Med Educ. 2017; 14(3):e67439. Kavosi Z et al. Data were collected using a two-part questionnaire. The first part contained demographic details of participants, and the second part included questions relating to the six main items in the professors’ evaluation form: “Drawing students’ attention while teaching,” “Using interactive and new teaching techniques,” “Ability to make the subject understood and motivating,” “Punctuality,” “Proper communication,” and “Proper planning.” Answers to the questions were given a score based on a 5-point Likert scale (very important = 9, important = 7, average = 5, low importance = 3, and very low importance = 1). To avoid errors due to the word “Average” in the questionnaire, participants were asked to give a score to each item according to its importance from 1 to 9. Validity of the questionnaire was confirmed by experts, and reliability was assessed using Cronbach’s alpha coefficient. To this end, a pretest was taken from a sample of 40 students. Cronbach’s alpha coefficient of 0.82 was found for the results, which confirmed the reliability of the questionnaire. Participation and completion of the questionnaire were carried out using student volunteers. The study objectives were explained, and confidentiality of data was stressed; verbal consent was then obtained from the participants. The questionnaires were distributed anonymously among participants and self-administered by them. Data were analyzed using SPSS-23 (IBM Corporation, Armonk, NY, version 23) by means of the T-test, ANOVA, and Pearson correlation coefficient at a significant level of P < 0.05. To weigh criteria, Shannon’s entropy method was used in Excel version 2016. This method has five general stages. First, each datum collected from students was divided by the total data in each item (Pij = ni/ζi). In the second stage, each figure obtained (often in decimal form) was multiplied by its Ln (Pij × LnPij). Next, the sum of previous operations for each item wasmultiplied by -K = (1)/(Ln350) (total sample size = 240), and the result for each item was named Eq. In the fourth stage, each Eq was subtracted from 1 (dj = 1 - Eq), and the results obtained for each item were added together (dj = dj1 + dj2 + dj3 + dj4 + dj5 + dj6). In the final stage, each dj was divided by ζdj, and in this way the final weight of each item was found. 3. Results Of all participants, 52.1% were women, 33.8% were second-year students, and 53.3% were in the 21 - 23 years’ age group (Table 1). Analysis of the results from Shannon’s entropymethod showed that the criterion “Drawing attention of students while teaching” weighed the most and came the first among other criteria (0.2087 out of 1), followed by “Use of interactive and new teaching methods,” “Ability to Table 1. Frequency Distribution and Details of Participants Variable No. (%) Age, y 18 - 20 87 (36.3) 21 - 23 128 (53.3) 24 - 26 19 (7.9) 27 - 32 6 (2.4) Gender Male 115 (47.9) Female 125 (52.1) Academic year First 43 (17.9) Second 81 (33.8) Third 72 (30) Fourth 31 (12.9) Higher 13 (5.4) make the subject understood andmotivate,” “Punctuality,” “Proper communication,” and “Proper planning” (Table 2). The results showing the score for each criterion from the students’ perspective are presented in Table 3. Table 2. Final Weight of Each Criterion of Students’ Evaluation of Professors Criterion Final Weight of a Score Attracting attention of students while teaching 0.2087 Use of interactive and new teaching methods 0.2049 Ability to make the subject understood and motivation 0.1728 Punctuality 0.1727 Proper relationships 0.1546 Proper planning 0.0863 Age was found to have a significant relationship with “Proper planning” (r = 0.201, P = 0.01) and “Punctuality” (r = 0.203, P = 0.021). Significant relationships were also observed between gender and “Ability to make the subject understood and motivating” (P = 0.001) and between academic year and “Drawing students’ attention while teaching” (P = 0.036) (Table 4). 4. Discussion and Conclusions According to the present study’s results, “Drawing students’ attention while teaching” was the most important 
study of Alawi SA, Luketina R, Krezdorn N, Busch LF, Limbourg A, Branski L, Vogt PM, Jokuszies A. How to become a medical professor–a comparative analysis of academic requirements in Germany and the United States. Innovative Surgical Sciences. 2019 Sep 25;4(3):108-15.
How to become a medical professor – a comparative analysis of academic requirements in Germany and the United States Seyed Arash Alawi EMAIL logo , Rosalia Luketina , Nicco Krezdorn , Lukas Fabian Busch , Anne Limbourg , Ludwik Branski , Peter M. Vogt and Andreas Jokuszies From the journal Innovative Surgical Sciences https://doi.org/10.1515/iss-2019-0011 44 total citations on Dimensions. Abstract Background The acquisition of a medical professorship represents a significant step in a physician’s academic career. The responsibility as well as the honor and the associated obligations are significant; however, the requirements to become a medical professor vary in Germany. Objective We analyzed the variable requirements for prospective medical professors in Germany, with special focus on the tenure track concept and the U.S. system. Methods Based on an online research, we queried German medical faculty regulations to obtain a medical professorship within Germany. Results We analyzed 35 German universities. On average, 11 publications are required after “venia legendi” to meet professorship (apl) prerequisites (median x̅ = 10, max = 24, min = 6, n = 16), whereas 6 publications with first or last authorship are required on average (x̅ = 6, max = 16, min = 4, n = 26). In most German universities, it takes an average of 4 years after gaining habilitation to apply for a professorship (x̅ = 5 years, max = 6 years, min = 2 years). Candidates for university chair positions, however, can shorten this period by an average of 38%. Discussion In the German academic system, the prerequisites to gain a professorship differ among universities. Due to different scientific cooperation and exchange programs, research and academic activities have reached an intense international exchange level. Yet there is no international or even national standardization, quality assurance, and comparability to gain a medical professorship.
Materials and methods We carried out a web-based analysis of available online information about conditions of obtaining an apl professorship based on the regulations of German medical faculties independent of the medical discipline. To work out the differences, we evaluated both faculty regulations and the federal state law and analyzed all updates concerning the subject. We evaluated (1) the total publications needed, (2) the proportion of first authorship/last authorship, and (3) the time span in years needed to become a apl professor after obtaining “venia legendi” as well as (4) the percentage of time reduction possible for obtaining a full professorship. A descriptive statistical evaluation was performed using Microsoft Excel (version 2016, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, WA, USA). The data were evaluated under the assumption of being publically available information. An approval by the local Ethics Committee was not necessary. Results Within Germany, the regulations for obtaining a medical apl professorship are updated independently by each federal state. These laws are updated at regular intervals being adjusted by the universities, which in turn update their faculty regulations. The regulations show how the state laws are practically handled and what requirements are needed to apply for an apl professorship or full professorship. Eighteen of 35 German universities mentioned a date for change of the respective law on higher education. The average period of faculty regulation updates, however, exceeded the time point of the state law update by more than 7 years (max=21 years, min=0 months). Table 2 shows the detailed conditions, which are accessible online. Table 2: Overview of the detailed conditions in German universities. No.	University	Years after venia legendi	Possible reduction	Possible percentage of reduction (%)	Total publications	First author/last author 1	RWTH Aachen University	5	–	–	12	8 2	Charité-University Medicine Berlin	–	–	–	–	5 3	Ruhr-Universität Bochum	5	4	20	10	8 4	University Bonn	5	3	40	12	8 5	Universität Dresden	4	–	–	–	6 6	Universität Duisburg-Essen	5	0	–	10	6 7	Universität Düsseldorf	5	3	40	–	– 8	Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg	6	4	33	–	6 9	Universität Frankfurt	6	–	–	24	16 10	Universität Freiburg	2	–	–	–	– 11	Universität Gießen	–	–	–	–	– 12	Universität Göttingen	3	2	33	8	5 13	Universität Greifswald	5	–	–	–	5 14	Universität Halle-Wittenberg	4	–	–	8	4 15	Universität Hamburg	–	–	–	–	– 16	Medizinische Hochschule Hannover	4	2	50	8	– 17	Universität Heidelberg	–	–	–	–	– 18	Universität Heidelberg/Mannheim	2	–	–	–	4 19	Universität Jena	5	–	–	10	5 20	Universität Kiel	4	–	–	12	6 21	Universität Köln	–	–	–	–	– 22	Universität Leipzig	4	ja	–	–	8 23	Universität Lübeck	4	–	–	–	8 24	Universität Magdeburg	4	–	––	–	5 25	Universität Mainz	–	–	–	12	6 26	Universität Marburg	6	–	–	–	6 27	Universität München	6	4	33	6	6 28	Universität Münster	–	–	–	–	5 29	Universität Oldenburg	2	–	–	–	– 30	Universität Regensburg	–	–	–	–	– 31	Universität Rostock	5	2	60	10	5 32	Universität Saarlandes	5	3	40	10	6 33	Universität Tübingen	2	–	–	–	6 34	Universität Ulm	2	–	–	12	6 35	Universität Würzburg	6	4	33	12	6 The table shows the detailed conditions, which could be found online. Therefore, it is important to note that an update of the homepages is necessary. For earning a medical professorship, an average of 11 total publications is required after habilitation (median x̅=10, max=24, min=6, n=16; Figure 1, 1), whereas 6 publications with first or last authorship are required on average (x̅=6, max=16, min=4, n=26; Figure 1, 2). In most German universities, an average of 4 years after habilitation is required to obtain a professorship (x̅=5 years, max=6 years, min=2 years; Figure 1, 3). In 10 universities, this period can be reduced on average by 38% by applying for an extrainstitutional professorship (x̅=37%, max=60%, min=20%; Figure 1, 4). The conditions of shortening this period are mainly linked to the listing of vacancies as an clinical director or “outstanding researcher”. The meaning of “outstanding research” is not specified. Figure 1: An average of 11 total publications is required after habilitation (median x̅=10, max=24, min=6, n=16) (1). The proportion of the first authorship/last authorship resulted in an average of 6 publications (x̅=6, max=16, min=4, n=26) (2). In most German universities, an average of 4 years is required to obtain a professorship (x̅=5 years, max=6 years, min=2 years) (3). At 10 universities, this period can be shortened by 38% on average (x̅=37%, max=60%, min=20%) (4). The conditions of shortening this time period are mainly linked to the listing of vacancies as an ordinary (clinical director) or outstanding researcher. The meaning of outstanding research is not further defined. Figure 1: An average of 11 total publications is required after habilitation (median x̅=10, max=24, min=6, n=16) (1). The proportion of the first authorship/last authorship resulted in an average of 6 publications (x̅=6, max=16, min=4, n=26) (2). In most German universities, an average of 4 years is required to obtain a professorship (x̅=5 years, max=6 years, min=2 years) (3). At 10 universities, this period can be shortened by 38% on average (x̅=37%, max=60%, min=20%) (4). The conditions of shortening this time period are mainly linked to the listing of vacancies as an ordinary (clinical director) or outstanding researcher. The meaning of outstanding research is not further defined. It is worth of note that some universities define their scientific achievements based on minimum achieved impact factors. For example, the Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich has defined a point score by grading journals to qualitative criteria (IF>20: 4 points; top journal: 2 points; standard journal: 1 point). Hereby, the journals within the first 20% of the ranking list apply as “top journals” and the further 40% (between 20% and 60%) are declared as standard journal [19]. The scientific achievements required for the regular procedure require at least, on average, two IF points per year since habilitation. At the majority of universities, however, the impact factor or publishing in well-recognized journals plays no significant role. Successful fundraising is another criterion gaining expected scientific achievements. Specifically, 10 of 35 universities state that third-party funds should be recruited as a prerequisite. The prerequisite of quality and grading of the doctoral thesis is necessary solely at RWTH Aachen University with the need of an excellent result. In summary, the condition of habilitation and professorship varies considerably between German universities.
study of Norouzi A, Ahmadi F, Bigdeli S, Arabshahi SK. The Experiences of Faculty Members and Medical Students of Basic Medical Sciences of Characteristics of a Competent Professor: A Qualitative Study. Medical Journal of the Islamic Republic of Iran. 2023;37.
The Experiences of Faculty Members and Medical Students of Basic Medical Sciences of Characteristics of a Competent Professor: A Qualitative Study Azam Norouzi, 1 Fazlollah Ahmadi, 2 Shoaleh Bigdeli, 1 and Seyed Kamran Soltani Arabshahi* 1 Author information Article notes Copyright and License information PMC Disclaimer Go to: Abstract Background The instructor is one of the key factors in attaining educational goals in medical education, and the instructor’s competencies facilitate students’ educational achievement. The present study is an attempt to explain the experiences of faculty members and students of characteristics of competent professors who play an influential role in the academic achievement of basic medical sciences students in universities of medical sciences across the country. Methods The present study is a conventional qualitative content analysis. Fifteen faculty members and students of medicine from Iranian universities of medical sciences from different regions of the country were selected using a purposive and then theoretical sampling. A semi-structured interview was used for data collection. Results In this study, four themes and nine sub-themes were extracted from interviews. The themes included “clinical knowledge”, “teaching competency”, “monitoring students’ performance”, and “cognitive-psychological arousal”. The sub-themes were “clinical knowledge’ including “Non-applied teaching of basic sciences and unfamiliarity of instructors of basic sciences with the clinic”; “teaching competency” including “having instructional design skills, teaching based on the psychology of learning, and professional development”; “monitoring students’ performance” including “fair evaluation and valid evaluation”, and “cognitive-psychological arousal” including “student support and reinforcement”. Conclusion The present study identified the important characteristics of the competencies of professors of basic medical sciences working in Iranian medical universities. The competency of professors is essential in promoting students’ educational achievement and training efficient and professional students in the field of medicine to render quality health services. The results of this study will assist administrators and educational policymakers in planning for the promotion of professors and medical education.
Methods This study used a conventional qualitative content analysis, which is a suitable method for generating knowledge, new insights, presenting facts, and practical guidance for practice (13). This analytical approach avoids the use of predefined categories and creates categories that emerge from the analyzed data. The advantage of this approach is that it generates information directly from data without imposing preconceived theoretical perspectives (14). Sampling Purposive sampling and then theoretical sampling were used to select the research participants. After securing ethical permission from the Iran University of Medical Sciences, informed consent was secured from professors and students who were interested in participating in the research. The participants were undergraduate medical students and professors of medical basic sciences from medical universities from across the country. The inclusion criterion for students was completing at least three semesters of undergraduate medical studies, and for professors, it was at least five years of teaching experience in medical basic sciences. After interviewing five professors and ten students using a semi-structured in-depth interview (Table 1) in a period of nine months in 2021-2022, the researchers reached data saturation. Table 1 Demographic characteristics of the study participants Participant number	Academic position	Academic Position	Marital status	Sex	Residential status	Medical Sciences University 1	Student	Intern	Single	Female	Private	Shahed 2	Student	Apprentice	Single	Female	Dorm	Iran 3	Student	Apprentice	Single	Female	Private	Iran 4	Faculty	Associate Professor	Married	Female	Private	Iran 5	Doctor of Medicine	General Practitioner	Single	Female	Dorm	Zahedan 6	Student	Apprentice	Single	Male	Private	Mashhad 7	Student	Basic Medical Sciences	Single	Male	Dorm	Tehran 8	Student	Basic Medical Sciences	Married	Female	Dorm	Shahed 9	Faculty	Professor	Married	Male	Private	Iran 10	Student	Basic Medical Sciences	Single	Male	Dorm	Birjand 11	Faculty	Professor	Married	Male	Private	Tehran 12	Student	Basic Medical Sciences	Single	Female	Dorm	Tehran 13	Faculty	Professor	Married	Female	Private	Iran 14	Student	Basic Medical Sciences	Single	Female	Dorm	Tehran 15	Faculty	Professor	Married	Male	Private	Shahid Beheshti Open in a separate window Data collection Semi-structured interviews were used to collect data. Most of the interviews were conducted face-to-face and individually (only the researcher and the interviewee) and by observing considerations that provided psychological security and privacy for the free expression of people's experiences and thoughts. However, due to the COVID-19 restrictions, some of the interviews were done on the phone. At the beginning of the interview, the purpose of the research was explained to the participants, and a time was set for conducting the interview. Interview sessions were held in professors’ offices and a private place in the medical school for interview with the students. The information sheet containing the title, purpose, introduction of the research team, and necessity of the research was provided to the participants and their informed consent was secured. Before starting data collection, the research team decided on interview-guided questions that had the conditions of openness, relevance, and indirectness. Probing questions emerged during the interview and all the interviews were recorded with the consent of the participants. The guided questions of the semi-structured interview focused on the experiences of the students and the professors on the competencies of professors. The interview process began with demographic questions and then  guided questions related to the study. For example, the first question asked, “Tell me about your experience of the characteristics and competencies of a professor you encountered in the basic sciences stage of your undergraduate studies?”, The researcher tried to get rich information about participants’ experiences by effective communication and interaction with them. In the interview session, based on the participant's responses, follow-up probing questions such as “Could you please explain it more?”, “Could you please give an example?”, “What do you mean?”, “Why?”, and “Did I understand you correctly?” were asked. On average, each interview lasted for 30-45 minutes. Data analysis After conducting each interview, the researcher listened to the interview carefully and transcribed it verbatim. Graneheim and Lundman's method was used for data analysis. The steps of which include writing the whole interview immediately after each interview, reading the full text of the interview to get a general understanding of its content, determining the meaning units and basic codes, classifying similar primary codes in more comprehensive classes, determining the hidden content in the data and extracting the main theme (15). During the transcriptions, situations such as the pronunciation of words, tone of voice, pause, laughter, sigh, cry, or the participant’s emphasis were also recorded, and the structure of the participants' colloquial speech was observed while transcribing the interviews. The interviews were analyzed at the end of the interview. In order to get familiarized with the data and evaluate them accurately, the transcriptions of the interviews were read and re-read several times to get a general impression of the participants' statements. Then, a code was given to each meaning unit such as a keyword/phrase/sentence or key text. In the next step, similar primary codes were put together to form the sub-themes that were then put under the themes. The accuracy and trustworthiness of the data In the present study, Guba and Lincoln's criteria of credibility, transferability, dependability, and confirmability were used to evaluate the accuracy and trustworthiness of the collected data (16). In this study, the researchers used the method of immersed engagement with the data for nine months and spent enough time collecting and analyzing the data to confirm the credibility and acceptability of the data. Another strategy used to confirm the credibility of the data was integration, in which the researchers used interviews as well as the diversity of participants. In addition, the researchers enhanced the acceptability of the data by using audio recording and transcribing and analyzing the data immediately after each interview and using its feedback for subsequent interviews and also continuous comparison of the data. To confirm dependability, a member-check was used, and each interview content was confirmed by the participants. And to ensure the correctness of data interpretation, the researcher returned the collected data and the coded texts to the participants and asked them to confirm or reject the extracted subthemes and themes. In addition, for peer-check the coded data and the results of the research were shared with two medical education experts to get their critical opinions. The third criterion to ensure the accuracy and trustworthiness of the data is transferability, meaning that the data be transferrable or applicable in similar contexts or groups. In this research, the researchers made deep, analytical, and rich descriptions of the background and characteristics of the participants, described the study context, and clearly described the obstacles and limitations so that the readers can use the findings of the study in other social contexts. To meet the confirmability criterion, all the stages of conducting the research, especially the stages of data analysis, were recorded in a detailed and comprehensive way so that, if other researchers wish to continue the research in other contexts, they can easily do so based on the documents of this research. Go to: Results After coding all the interviews, 780 initial codes were extracted, and after integrating similar ones, the number of codes reduced to 234 codes. Finally, four themes and nine sub-themes were extracted from the codes (Table 2). The themes that emerged included “clinical knowledge,” “teaching competency,” “monitoring students’ performance,” and “cognitive-psychological arousal.” The sub-themes were “clinical knowledge,” including “Non-applied teaching of basic sciences and unfamiliarity of basic sciences professors with the clinic”; “teaching competency,” including “having instructional design skills, teaching based on the psychology of learning, and professional development”; “monitoring students’ performance” including “fair and valid evaluation of the student’s performance”; “cognitive-psychological arousal” including “students support and reinforcement”. Table 2 The competencies of basic medical sciences professors affecting students’ educational achievement Codes	Sub-themes	Themes Making basic sciences applicable Not explaining the application of basic sciences in the clinic Superficial learning of non-applicable subjects in the clinic	Non-applied teaching of basic sciences	Clinical knowledge Professors’ clinical experience Professors’ clinical background	Unfamiliarity with basic sciences professors at the clinic Medical education literacy Selecting suitable content and educational materials Knowing the learners’ individual differences Knowing the learners’ level of knowledge Knowing the learners’ learning styles	Having instructional design skills	Teaching competency Using attention-grabbing activities Interactive teaching Successful model for transferring educational materials Using modern methods of teaching	Teaching based on the psychology of learning Positive personality traits of Professors Teaching competence of Professors Communicative skills of Professors Professional ethics of Professors Teaching skills of Professors The importance of professor’s experience in the process of teaching	Professional development Lack of bias in evaluation Applying a suitable evaluation method	Fair evaluation	Monitoring students’ performance Formative evaluation Correspondence between evaluation and goals Evaluation toward the student’s learning	Valid evaluation Not abandoning the student Encouraging the student Providing academic counseling to the student	Students Support	Cognitive - psychological arousal Rewarding the student for good scores in the exam Allocating points forparticipation in class activities Using verbal encouragement	Reinforcement Open in a separate window Clinical knowledge Non-applied teaching of basic sciences One of the most important glitches that medical students of basic sciences encounter is the gap between basic and clinical sciences, and most of the students said that the professors do not teach in a practical way; therefore, they do not have a good understanding of the lessons and just memorize them, and the reason for that is the lack of clinical foundation of the professors of basic sciences. Participant number 1 stated, “They don’t teach us the applications of what we learn, where we can use what we are learning now in practice (not explaining the application of basic sciences courses in the clinic), so we just memorize what they are and what they aren’t”. Unfamiliarity of professors of basic sciences with the clinic A number of students considered lack of clinical background of most of the professors of basic sciences as the major reason for focusing on theoretical teaching. Participant number 5 said, “Most of the professors of basic sciences are PhD graduates of basic sciences and they do not have a clinical background; in other words, they don't have much knowledge of which part of these courses is really useful for a medical doctor (The professor's lack of knowledge of the contents related to the clinic). Teaching competency Having instructional design skills Instructional design is about how learning takes place and the arrangement of activities related to it. The professors of basic sciences expressed their skills in instructional design by familiarizing themselves with the principles of medical education, recognizing individual differences of the learners, knowing the learners' level of knowledge, recognizing the learning styles of the learners, and choosing the appropriate content and educational materials. Regarding the selection of educational content and materials, participant number 4 said, “I am so obsessed about developing the materials, I always try to select materials that are clear and up-date (selection of clear and up-to-date educational materials), and take into account the learners’ goals”. Participants number 9 said, “So, I try to identify the needs of the learners in the field I am teaching (identifying the learning needs of students) in two ways: first, the curriculum of the program and, second, by asking myself what competencies they are expected to acquire (identifying the learning needs of students through the curriculum of the program, identifying the competencies expected from the student at the end of the program) and trying to teach accordingly. Teaching based on the psychology of learning The psychology of learning works on how people learn and interact with their environment. In the learning process, professors need to have the necessary information and knowledge of modern educational theories and learning and educational psychology. The professors’ teaching methods should be in harmony with the principles and goals of education and the characteristics of the learners. The experiences of professors and students in this regard were summarized in five categories of attention-grabbing activities in teaching, interactive teaching, successful model of transferring the content of teaching materials, professor's attention to the principles of teaching and learning and the use of modern methods in education. Regarding the concepts of attention-grabbing activities in teaching and using modern methods in education, participant number 4 said, “I often give tangible examples (giving understandable examples), we exchange questions and answers (questions and answers), so I try to give clinical cases for medical students (providing clinical cases), and I try to talk about the applications of cases (expressing the application of clinical cases), I try to use ways of teaching that are different from lecture-based teaching, for example, we had a team based-learning and the students liked it a lot” (using modern teaching methods). Professional development Professional development or the existence of core competencies in the performance of professors is necessary for their professional development. The participants expressed different aspects of professors' professional characteristics, including positive personality traits, professional ethics, teaching skills, and teaching experience. Regarding the importance of teaching experience, participant number 1 said, “I remember the genetics professor was a guy who had never taught at the university before, he knew a lot about genetics but he had no teaching experience (lack of teaching experience), so he did not teach the materials in the way we were expected to learn”. Considering the characteristics of professional ethics, participant number 4 says, “I really try to consider my students' personalities and characters, I avoid having arguments with them (respecting students’ dignity and personality), and I had a positive relationship with them” (effective relationship with students). Monitoring Students’ performance Fair evaluation From the perspective of the students and professors, evaluation should be done in a fair and accurate way and without any bias. In regard to fair evaluation and lack of bias, participant number 9 says, “Professors need to accept and have a good relationship with students’ joking behavior in class and their personality characteristics. I have never let these things affect my evaluation of students (not considering students’ behavioral traits in evaluation). In my opinion, evaluation is the last stage of learning”. Valid evaluation Valid evaluation is the assessment of students' achievement of educational values or goals (17). Participant number 2 says, “One of our professors was very committed, and he wanted us to learn. He would always ask questions in class to make sure we had learned the lesson (formative evaluation). He would explain again when he felt we had not learned a part of the lesson. He would ask the students to raise their questions if they had any, and his exam was always standard (standard exams), and the questions were exactly based on the materials in the coursebook”. Cognitive-psychological arousal Students support: The meaning of student support in this study is the psychological support of students, considered considering entering a new period of studies that is different from high school, and also some of them are separated from their families Participant number 11 says, “We need to allocate time to our students, talk to them and meet them. Being seen is a lot more important than seeing” (valuing students). Reinforcement: Student reinforcement in the teaching-learning process is a computational framework for modeling and automating targeted (18). Participant number 4 says, “I tell my students that at the end of the session, I will give them a quiz on the materials taught during the class. I make it clear that the quiz has no negative point, I mean they won’t lose any points, but I tell them that if they get a good grade on the quiz, they will receive a bonus score in the final grade” (using the test as a motivational tool, rewarding students for good grades in class quizzes).
study of Karyan AK, Rezaei S, Etesami S, Pezhman L, Matin BK, Delavari S. Eliciting preferences of professors and medical group students for evaluation methods of theoretical courses: An application of discrete choice experiment analysis. Journal of Education and Health Promotion. 2021 Jan 1;10(1):82.
Eliciting preferences of professors and medical group students for evaluation methods of theoretical courses An application of discrete choice experiment analysis Kazemi Karyan, Ali; Rezaei, Satar; Etesami, Shokooh1; Pezhman, Leyla1; Matin, Behzad Karami; Delavari, Sajad2 Author Information Journal of Education and Health Promotion 10(1):p 82, | DOI: 10.4103/jehp.jehp_540_20 Open Metrics Abstract BACKGROUND: Evaluation has become an inseparable part of education process which gives feedback to students and professors to improve education quality. This study aimed to elicit preferences of professors and students about attributes of evaluation methods in theoretical courses in Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, Iran, in 2018. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Discrete choice experiment (DCE) method used for eliciting preferences of participants of the study. A narrative literature review and interview with eight professors and ten students conducted to determine attributes and levels of evaluation methods in the university. Furthermore, experimental design used for making final choice sets of the evaluation methods. We included 213 students and 30 professors in the study. Conditional logistic regression model performed to data analysis. RESULTS: Most of the professors (36.67%) preferred to allocate up to 30% of evolution scores to midterm examination. However, the most percentage of students (30.45%) were agree to include midterm examination up to 15% of total scores. The majority of students prefer to examination questions compromise just presented materials, while 70% of professors prefer to include additional texts for evaluation examinations. In case of quiz examination, professors in comparison with students prefer that quiz should have higher proportion of total scores. DCE analysis indicated that professors and students preferred a mix of questions in examinations. In addition, additional resources beyond what is taught in class made utility for professors and disutility for students. Quiz, also, increased the utility of an evaluation package in professors. CONCLUSION: The findings showed that there is a gap between preferences of professors and students regarding some attributes of evaluation methods such as student's discipline, examination materials, and quiz. Further studies are needed to examining other attributes of evaluation methods in theatrical and practical courses in Iran and other contexts.
Materials and Methods This study was a descriptive-analytical study that used DCE method of analysis to elicit preferences of professors and students of KUMS about attributes of evaluation methods in theoretical courses during 2018. For this purpose, following steps of DCE method were done: Determining attributes and levels The basic hypothesis of DCE method is that we can describe the goods, services, methods, etc., using their attributes. It is suggested to use literature review and qualitative studies such as interview with experts for determining attributes and attributes-levels.[2526] Therefore, we applied a narrative literature review and interview with eight professors and 10 students to determine attributes and levels of evaluation methods in the university. The experience of at least 5 years of teaching in the university was inclusion criteria for professors to include in qualitative study. In addition, students passed at least 20 theoretical courses in the time of study. All professors had academic degrees related to medical sciences such as health-care management, health education, health economics, nursing, and medicine. We continued interviews until achieving saturation in information. After reviewing literature and the interviews, the research team determines six main attributes to include in final design. The attributes and levels that included in final design are shown in Appendix 1. Experimental design By defining attributes and levels, scenarios were created using a combination of attributes and levels. In other words, this step of the study involves deciding which choices to make to present to the study participants.[27] The output of experimental design is set of choice sets that use to eliciting the preferences of participants. A choice set consists of the choices that the individual chooses. There are several ways to design the choice sets of study. However, in many cases, respondents are offered two or more options to choose one among them. In this study, 7 choice sets, each with two scenarios, made by D-efficiency criteria to optimize the final design. Appendix 2 shows a choice set included in the study. Finally, based on first phases of the study, the questionnaire of this study was developed. The questionnaire had two sections. First section included demographic, descriptive variables, and opinion of participants about attributes of evaluation methods. Second one included choice sets and definition of the attributes. Data analysis The base for analysis the DCE data is the random utility model (RUM). In according to RUM, in a situation that we request a person to choose between two evaluation plan of A or B, when he/she chose option A, it shows that this alternative have higher utility than alternative B. It can be write as follows:[28] U (A, C) > U (B, C)     (1) Here, U devotes the derived utility from the evaluation plans A and B. C is personal characteristics that are a common factor in two sides of equation 1, then the formula can be rewrite as: V (A-B) = U (A, C)– U (B, C)     (2) Here, V is indirect utility obtained from evaluation plan A in compare with evaluation plan B. the following linear regression model fitted to estimate the utility of attributes of evaluation plans: V = ß1dis+ ß2 mid+ ß3que+ ß4que+ ß5que+ ß6 sour+ ß7 final+ß8 quiz + [Latin Small Letter Open E]     (3) Where, β1 to β8 are the coefficients of the attributes of evaluation plans: Dis (student's discipline), mid (midterm examination), que (question types), final (final examination), and quiz (quiz). ε devotes error term. With considering the logistic distribution for error term, the conditional logit regression model was performed for data analysis. The restrictive assumption of this model is independent of irrelevant alternatives. However, the interpretations of coefficients of this model is easier than other complicated models, such as nested or mixed logit models and it is shown this method is enough strong to use for analysis DCE data.[29] We performed a subgroup analysis to elicit preferences of students by schools. Goodness of fit of models was investigated using McFadden R2 and χ2 tests. The statistical software packages SAS 9.1 and Stata 14 (StataCorp, College Station, TX, USA) were used to perform the analysis. Sampling The sample size of the DCE studies is complex to determine. At least 30 participants should include in the studies. However, others suggested some formula to determining the sample size as follow:[30] Where, S is sample size, n is the total number of participants, t is the total number of choice sets, a is the number of alternatives in the choice sets, and c is the highest number levels in the included attributes. Accordingly, we included 213 students and 30 professors in the study. The convenience sampling method used for data collection by interview with participants. Ethical statements This study has been approved by the Ethics Committee of KUMS (ethics code: IR.KUMS.REC.1396.633). Results The descriptive results of the study showed that mean (standard deviation: [SD]) of students was 22.55 (2.49) years. Of total students, 213 (68.27%) were female and others were male. Samples were included from all schools of health (28.53%), nursing and midwifery (17.95%), medicine (4.49%), paramedical sciences (21.79%), pharmacy (6.41%), nutrition sciences (4.17%), and dentistry (16.67%). The mean (SD) age of professors was 37.93 (7.18) years and 76.67% were male. In addition, mean (SD) of number of courses that professors teach during their employment in the university was 108 (143.70). The highest percentage of professors (70%) had philosophy of doctor (PhD) degree; follow by degrees of master of sciences (26.67%), and medical doctor (3.33%). Figure 1 shows the percentage of agreement with including different types of questions in evaluation of students by professors and students. Professors believed that essay (80%), multiple choice (80%), and matching (76.67) questions were the most popular types of questions. On the other hand, multiple choice (84.62%) was the most preferred question by students and other types of questions were not very popular. F1-73 Figure 1: Percentage of agreement with inclusion of different types of questions in examinations Preferences of participants about related items to the evaluation of students showed that 13.33% of professors and 33.65% of students were not agree to allocate some scores to student's discipline in class. In case of midterm examination, the most of professors (36.67%) prefer to allocate up to 30% of evolution scores to this item. However, the most percentage of students (30.45%) were agree to include midterm examination up to 15% of total scores. The majority of students prefer to examination questions compromise just presented materials, while 70% of professors prefer to include additional text for evaluation examinations in theoretical courses. Table 1 shows preferences of participants about attributes of evaluation plans in theoretical courses. T1-73 Table 1: Preferences of participants about attributes related to evaluation plans of students The results of DCE model to eliciting preferences of professors showed that in univariate logit regression model midterm examination, type of questions (at the level of a mix of essay, multiple choice, fill in the blanks, yes-no, true-false), source of examination, and quiz significantly increased the probability of selecting evaluation packages. However, multivariate model for professors' preferences indicated that all attributes increased the probability of choosing an evaluation method. With increasing a percent of midterm scores, the probability of selecting an evaluation method increased by 2.2% (P < 0.01). The attributes of question types increased the utility of professors so that mix types of questions increased the probability of choosing the evaluation method by 17.7% than essay (P > 0.1). In case of source of examination, presented sources and additional references increased the utility of professors than presented sources in class (OR: 2.424, P < 0.01). Quiz, also, increased the utility of an evaluation package in professors. One percent increase in quiz share in total score increased the probability of selection an evaluation method by 7.3% (P < 0.01). The fitted model was statistically significant (P < 0.001). [Table 2] presents the results of DCE analysis for eliciting the preferences of professors for attributes of evaluation plans in theoretical courses. T2-73 Table 2: Preferences of professors about attributes of evaluation plans using discrete choice experiment analysis Univariate analysis of attributes of evaluation method showed that student's discipline and adding additional references to presented material in class have disutility for students (P < 0.001). Multivariate regression analysis indicated that student's discipline (P < 0.001), type of questions (P < 0.05), and quiz (P < 0.001) decrease the probability of selecting the evaluation method by the students. A mix of essay, multiple choice, fill in the blanks, yes-no, true-false questions in an evaluation method decreased the probability of choosing that method by 76%. One percent increase in final examination's score significantly increased the probability of the selecting evaluation method by 2.5% (P < 0.01). The fitted model was statistically significant (P < 0.001). Table 3 presents the results of DCE analysis for eliciting the preferences of students for attributes of evaluation plans in theoretical courses. T3-73 Table 3: Preferences of students about attributes of evaluation plans using discrete choice experiment analysis Eliciting of the preferences of students by schools of the university showed that students not prefer to discipline have some scores for all schools. A mix of essay, multiple choice, fill in the blanks, yes-no, true-false questions had disutility for students of all schools. Regarding the source of examination, the level of presented material and additional references made disutility for students of nursing and midwifery, and dentistry schools. Finally, quiz had disutility for students from all schools. The results of DEC analysis for eliciting the preferences of students for attributes of evaluation plans in theoretical courses by schools are presented in Table 4. T4-73 Table 4: Preferences of students about attributes of evaluation plans using Discrete choice experiment analysis by schools
