Teacher assessment and psychometric theory: a case of paradigm crossing? Alex Teasdale and Constant Leung King’s College, London Alternative assessment (as opposed to formal testing) is gaining a great deal of attention in current educational discussion. This article attempts to address some of the epistemic and practical issues facing alternative assessment, with particular reference to teacher assessment of spoken English as an additional language / second language (EAL/ESL) in the early years of primary (elementary) education in England and Wales. We first examine the claims made by advocates of alternative assessment in terms of validity and educational relevance. It is argued that such claims are founded on an uneasy articulation of different principles underpinning psychometric measurement and pedagogy. Next we look at some of the reasons why psychometric approaches may not provide an adequate response to pedagogic and policy developments. Then some of the theoretical and practical problems involved in teacher assessment of speaking, focusing on learners with EAL in primary education, are discussed. We focus on the importance of clarity about the epistemological bases of different types of assessment. Additionally, the article highlights the need to be alert to the ways in which political and ideological concerns – together with the influence of professional (teaching) culture – are influential in shaping the properties of assessment systems. I Introduction In the 1990s classroom-based language assessment became particularly common in multilingual mainstream classroom settings in Australia, Britain and North America and is used extensively with young learners at primary level. This phenomenon can in part be seen as a reflection of the trend in general education towards a broad range of alternative forms of assessment (Huerta-Marcı´as, 1995). It is also, in part, a reflection of the recognition by researchers, educators and policy makers of the flexibility of such an approach and the claims for validity made on its behalf. However, this increase in the frequency of use of classroom-based approaches to language assessment has its problems. This article seeks to examine some of the conceptual and practical difficulties encountered in the notion of teacher assessment with particular reference to its use within the National Curriculum in England and Wales. In particular, we discuss the problems of attempting to implement modes of assessment which are intended to satisfy the requirements of both learning and the measurement of achievement when insufficient attention has been given to the distinctive differences in the nature of knowledge which inform alternative and psychometric assessment. These problems are especially salient for pupils whose mother tongue is not English. In the discussion, we draw on our research into the assessment of speaking and listening in the primary school phase of the National Curriculum for England and Wales with learners of English as an additional language (EAL; Leung and Teasdale, 1997a; 1997b; Teasdale and Leung, 1997) in order to exemplify some of the issues raised and to illustrate the impact of assessment arrangements which has been inadequately conceptualized. The issues raised here are not necessarily age specific. II Alternative assessment and the psychometric paradigm A particular focus of interest in the literature has been the degree to which alternative assessment practices conform to the conceptualizations of validity which are current in more traditional psychometric approaches (see, amongst others, Gipps, 1992; Miller and Legg, 1993; Wiliam, 1993; Messick, 1995; Moss, 1995). However, a psychometric perspective is not the only reference point for alternative assessment. One claim is that ‘traditional’ validity frameworks operate from perspectives which are incompatible with the goals of alternative assessment. Additionally, alternative assessment is often associated with arguments for different conceptualizations of validity (TGAT, 1988; Nitko, 1989; Valdez Pierce and O’Malley, 1992; Gipps, 1994; Shepard et al., 1996). Huerta-Macı´as (1995: 9), writing in the US context, argues, in a way reminiscent of some of the early claims to validity of communicative language testing (e.g., Clark, 1978; Jones, 1985), that classroom-based teacher assessment of language has validity because ‘it looks at actual performance on real-life tasks, such as writing . . . participation in collaborative work . . . The procedures in and of themselves are, therefore, valid’. She further asserts that validity itself ensures reliability because it is very likely that a student engaged in a real learning task such as retelling a story will perform in similar ways from one week to the next. Shepard et al., (1996: 7) summarize some of the claims which have been made for classroom performance assessments: Performance assessments should enhance the validity of measurement by representing the full range of desired learning outcomes, by preserving the complexity of disciplinary knowledge domains and skills, by representing the contexts in which knowledge must ultimately be applied, and by adapting the modes of assessment to enable students to show what they know. The more assessments embody authentic criterion performances, the less we have to worry about drawing inferences from test results to remote constructs. Gipps (1994: 123) suggests that by assessing repeatedly over time, teachers can build up a ‘solid and broadly-based understanding of a pupil’s attainment’. Because of this ‘teacher assessment may be seen as having a high validity in relation to content and construct’ (p. 124). She also argues that if the information yielded by such assessment is to aid teaching and learning and that the outcome is improved learning, then it has consequential validity. Furthermore, if the sampling is of sufficient breadth and depth, then this kind of assessment is ‘generalizable’ within the particular domain in question. The kinds of claim Huerta-Macı´as makes are clearly not consistent with understandings of the nature of validity in psychometric approaches to measurement (e.g. Brown and Hudson, 1998). Validity appears to be narrowly conceived as a property of a procedure rather than of test scores (see Messick, 1989) and, what is more, a procedure within which close resemblance to real-life activity is taken as a sufficient condition to ensure validity (see Bachman, 1990). The claims of Gipps (1994), too, are difficult to reconcile with the kind of unitary approach to validity suggested in Messick (1989), since consequential validity is only one facet of ‘the unitary validity concept’ (p. 20); the interdependency of the concept – as proposed by Messick – precludes investigating single facets of the validity model without establishing the evidential bases of validity across the other relevant facets. Even if the central premise is accepted that ongoing sampling of classroom tasks of sufficient ‘breadth and depth’ allows for valid inferences to be made (an empirical question in itself), many questions remain. How many tasks? What type of tasks would fulfil the domain requirements? Are there tasks which would not? Is it assumed that the classroom and curriculum environment itself guarantees the domain relevance? How would we know whether it did or did not? However, it may be less important to ask these questions if the purpose of alternative assessment is to meet the needs of pedagogy. Arguably, where the stakes in assessment are lower (such as in ongoing schooling; however, see Rea-Dickins and Gardner, this issue) but where the impact on learning is an important consideration, then validity is liable to be reinterpreted. What is crucial in such situations is that the relationship (or lack of it) to psychometric notions of validity is made clear. All too often, aspects of psychometric theory are used to support positions which, in other crucial respects, are entirely untenable in psychometric terms. Downloaded from ltj.sagepub.com at TEXAS SOUTHERN UNIVERSITY on December 9, 2014 166 Teacher assessment and psychometric theory In the case of the Department for Education and Employment (DfEE), the body responsible for educational provision in England and Wales, there appears to be recognition that formal assessment and teacher assessment (i.e., two distinct approaches) provide different types of information. However, in making claims about the nature of information yielded, the validity requirements of the different approaches are ignored: Teacher assessment is an essential part of the National Curriculum assessment . . . Both [formal tests and teacher assessment] have equal status and provide complementary information about children’s attainment. The tests provide a standard ‘snapshot’ of attainment at the end of the key stage, while teacher assessment, carried out as part of teaching and learning in the classroom, covers the full range and scope of the programmes of study, and takes account of evidence of achievement in a range of contexts, including that gained through discussion and observation (DfEE, 1998: 9). In reality, the development and validation of the tests used seem to conform to standard psychometric practice; whereas the development and validation of teacher assessment have been neglected. For younger learners, particularly in educational systems which are committed to using information about pupil progress to inform pedagogy, teacher assessment is seen as an attractive option. However, implementing teacher assessment is not straightforward (as is shown by the examples presented in Rea-Dickins and Garner, this issue). The distinctions between testing (where psychometric and more traditional educational measurement principles guide practices) and teacher assessment (where both measurement and learning may be invoked) may be blurred. In the document cited above (DfEE, 1998), the threat to validity when using such different assessment approaches does not appear to have been addressed. Consequently, both what is measured and, therefore, the meanings which can be ascribed to scores are taken as unproblematic and somehow obvious. Another example can be found in a document published by TESOL (1998: 3) on assessment for the US context: Classroom assessments are those that are interwoven into instruction, often created and delivered by ESL/bilingual teachers. Large-scale assessments are those planned and conducted at the district, state, or national levels . . . The principles and discussions throughout this document refer to both large-scale and classroom assessment . . . The unproblematized grounding of both ‘classroom assessment’ and ‘large-scale assessment’ within a canonical educational measurement perspective is illustrated further in a discussion about reliability: Reliability is an assessment’s ability to produce consistent results. In other words, an assessment should yield the same results, or scores, from the same student. Many factors can jeopardize reliability, such as the instrument used Downloaded from ltj.sagepub.com at TEXAS SOUTHERN UNIVERSITY on December 9, 2014 Alex Teasdale and Constant Leung 167 to assess or the way the assessment is scored. . . If a student performs significantly differently on the same task within a short period of time, it is most likely a problem of the instrument and not the student . . . If one rater has been trained differently from another, or is using the criteria inconsistently, then a student may get different scores by different raters on the same task. 

Teacher assessment literacy: a review of international standards and measures Christopher DeLuca1 & Danielle LaPointe-McEwan1 & Ulemu Luhanga1 Received: 1 October 2014 /Accepted: 18 November 2015 # Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015 Abstract Assessment literacy is a core professional requirement across educational systems. Hence, measuring and supporting teachers’ assessment literacy have been a primary focus over the past two decades. At present, there are a multitude of assessment standards across the world and numerous assessment literacy measures that represent different conceptions of assessment literacy. The purpose of this research is to (a) analyze assessment literacy standards from five English-speaking countries (i.e., Australia, Canada, New Zealand, UK, and USA) plus mainland Europe to understand shifts in the assessment landscape over time and across regions and (b) analyze prominent assessment literacy measures developed after 1990. Through a thematic analysis of 15 assessment standards and an examination of eight assessment literacy measures, results indicate noticeable shifts in standards over time yet the majority of measures continue to be based on early conceptions of assessment literacy. Results also serve to define the multiple dimensions of assessment literacy and yield important recommendations for measuring teacher assessment literacy 2 Methods A two-phase research design was used to achieve the dual purposes of this study. The first phase involved collecting and analyzing documents describing teacher assessment literacy standards from various regions: Australia, Canada, New Zealand, UK, USA, and mainland Europe. To build on Gotch and French’s (2014) review, the second phase involved examining post-1990 assessment literacy measures to analyze the degree to which these measures align with contemporary assessment standards. 2.1 Phase 1: analysis of assessment literacy standards Assessment standards were selected from the six English-speaking regions (i.e., Australia, Canada, New Zealand, UK, USA, and mainland Europe). These regions have a demonstrated commitment to the advancement of classroom assessment research, policy, and practice as evident by their longstanding representation (since 2001) at the International Symposium for Classroom Assessment (ISCA n.d.) and with assessment leaders within the Consortium of International Researchers in Classroom Assessment. These countries have dedicated Bstandards^ documents that shape and guide teacher practice in the area of classroom assessment. That said, it is important to note that other countries and regions have strong traditions in classroom assessment with delineated policies for teacher practice (both English-speaking and not). Hence, the regional selection criteria for this study while justified do represent a generalizability limitation with this research. Therefore, we assert this study as a starting point for future research on assessment standards for teacher practice. Within the selected countries and regions, assessment standards were systematically identified by reviewing: (a) public websites for national or inter-state organizations and governmental ministries of education (e.g., Australian Department of Education, Department of Education in the United Kingdom, and US Department of Education); (b) national or inter-state assessment research consortia, associations, and joint advisory committees (e.g., Assessment and Certification Authorities, Assessment Reform Group, Association for Educational Assessment-Europe, Australian Curriculum, Joint Advisory Committee-Canada, National Council on Measurement in Education, and Joint Committee for Standards on Educational Evaluation); and (c) national and regional teacher education associations (e.g., Interstate Teacher Assessment and Support Consortium, National Board for Professional Teaching Standards, and National Council for the Accreditation of Teacher Education). Only documents that explicitly addressed Bstandards^ for teacher competency or literacy in assessment of student learning were selected for further analysis; in total, 15 standards documents were identified (see Table 1). Only national or inter-state level policies were used for this analysis. In countries with decentralized educational systems in which education falls within state or provincial jurisdiction (e.g., Canada and the USA), there may be additional policies that operate at state/provincial levels. All 15 documents were first coded by region and date of publication. Documents were then analyzed inductively using standard thematic coding procedures (Patton 2002) (see Table 2). The unit of analysis for thematic coding was each standard or, where applicable, its associated guidelines. For each document, frequencies were constructed to show the representation of each identified code. The total frequency of a code in relation to the total number of standards or guidelines within the document was calculated and expressed as a percentage. This proportion-based process reduced the inflation of frequency counts across documents with varying numbers of standards and/or guidelines (DeLuca and Bellara 2013). Codes were then collapsed into themes, and total percentages for each theme were reported (Tables 3 and 4). In total, we identified 35 codes that were collapsed into eight themes. These themes were (a) Assessment Purposes, (b) Assessment Processes, (c) Communication of Assessment Results, (d) Assessment Fairness, (e) Assessment Ethics, (f) Measurement Theory, (g) 3 Results 3.1 Assessment literacy: what is it? The results from phase 1 provide insight into standards that delineate teacher assessment literacy. Specifically, nine governmental and research-based assessment standards documents were included in our thematic analysis: five from the USA and one each from Canada, Australia, the UK, and mainland Europe. In addition, six standard documents from teacher accreditation and certification organizations were included; three from the USA and one each from New Zealand, Australia, and the UK. Prior to analyzing temporal and regional variations in these various documents, we briefly describe the number of standards and guidelines found within each document (see Table 1). 3.2 Governmental and research-based assessment standards In the USA, the Standards for Teacher Competence in Educational Assessment of Students (AFT et al. 1990) document was created to guide teacher educators and teachers in developing assessment competency. The document comprises seven standards that have been widely represented and reinforced in assessment textbooks for teachers, teacher education courses, policy documents, and educational research (Brookhart 2011) Three years later, the Principles for Fair Student Assessment Practices for Education in Canada (Joint Advisory Committee 1993) were published in Canada. This document consists of five standards and related guidelines intended to ensure fair assessment practices in Canadian educational contexts. The document is aimed at users and developers of classroom-based and standardized assessments. The document was generated from a cross-Canadian panel with two representatives appointed from nine Canadian educational organizations (i.e., Canadian Education Association, Canadian School Boards Association, Canadian Association for School Administrators, Canadian Teachers Federation, Canadian Guidance and Counselling Association, Canadian Association of School Psychologists, Canadian Council for Exceptional Children, Canadian Psychological Association, and Canadian Society for the Study of Education). Back in the USA, the National Council on Measurement in Education (NCME) produced the Code of Professional Responsibilities in Measurement in 1995. This extensive document was intended to guide all individuals involved in educational assessment activities, formal and informal, to Buphold the integrity of the manner in which assessment are developed, used, evaluated, and marketed^ (p. 1). The NCME document comprises eight standards with associated guidelines. In 1999, the America Educational Research Association, American Psychological Association, and National Council on Measurement in Education published the Standards for Educational and Psychological Testing. These sixteen standards serve as a reference for professional test developers, policy makers, and test users in the domains of education, psychology, and employment. A revised version is anticipated in 2014. Recognizing the limitations of previous assessment standards documents, Brookhart (2011) proposed a new set of educational assessment knowledge and skills for teachers. Specifically, Brookhart argued that the Standards for Teacher Competence in Educational Assessment of Students (AFT et al. 1990) failed to incorporate two significant developments in educational assessment: (a) formative assessment and (b) standards-based reform. Consequently, she proposed a set of 11 standards that reflect teachers’ current assessment competency needs. Most recently, the Joint Committee for Standards on Educational Evaluation (2015) released the Classroom Assessment Standards: Practices for PK-12 Teachers. This document includes 16 standards and related guidelines that illustrate essential considerations when Bexercising the professional judgment required for fair and equitable classroom formative, benchmark, and summative assessments for all students^ (p. 1). These standards can be used by teachers, students, and parents/guardians to support and enhance student learning. At the other ends of the globe, the Australian Curriculum, Assessment and Certification Authorities (ACACA 1995) produced the Guidelines for Assessment Quality and Equity. The primary focus of this document is to ensure quality, fair assessment in high stakes senior secondary assessment. This document includes 20 guidelines that address the quality of assessment methods, materials, and results. Over a decade later, in the UK, the Assessment Reform Group (2008) issued Changing Assessment Practices: Process, Principles and Standards. The purpose of this document is to guide and support change in assessment practice in educational contexts. Four broad standards and associated guidelines address: classroom teachers, school management teams, national/local governing bodies, and policy makers. Within each standard, assessment is discussed generally and in terms of formative and summative uses. In 2012, the Association for Educational Assessment-Europe (AEA-Europe) produced the European Framework of Standards for Educational Assessment 1.0. This framework is designated as a tool with seven core elements intended to support users of assessments as well as providers of assessment education and training. The framework incorporates both summative and formative uses of various types of assessments: standardized tests, classroom assessments, perfor

A CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORK FOR INTEGRATING PEER ASSESSMENT IN TEACHER EDUCATION Dominique Sluijsmans and Frans Prins Open University of the Nether~ands, Heerlen, the Nether~ands Abstract Peer assessment can be a valuable learning tool in teacher education because it supports student teachers to acquire skills that are essential in their professional working life. This article presents a conceptual framework in which the training of peer assessment skills by means of peer assessment tasks is integrated in teacher education courses. Theories about constructive alignment, student involvement, instructional design, and performance assessment underlie the framework. Furthermore, two recently published empirical studies will be briefly described to provide empirical support for the value of the framework. Results of these studies show that the framework offers powerful guidelines for the design and integration of peer assessment activities in teacher training courses. In general, the peer assessment tasks that were embedded in the courses led to a general improvement in students' peer assessment skills as well as their task performance in the domain of the course. Implications for course and curriculum design are discussed. Designing Performance Assessments A common error in designing a course or unit of study is to leave the development of the performance assessment as a final activity (Airasian, 1991). The compatibility between learning, instruction and assessment is a basic assumption for our framework. Biggs' (1996, 1999, 2001) theory of constructive alignment and Stiggins' (1987) approach are useful to design courses and performance assessments. Four steps can be taken to design courses in which instruction and assessments are completely aligned. First, teachers must have a clearly defined purpose of a course. The concepts, skills, and knowledge to be assessed, as well as the level at which students should be performing, must be determined (Stiggins, D. Sluijsmans, E Prins /Studies' in Educational Evaluation 32 (2006) 6-22 1987). Second, it must be decided what type of activity best suits the assessment needs. This can result in a skill decomposition in which the relevant skills are hierarchically ordered, or in which they are organized in a concept map. Third, decisions should be made concerning the assessment task. Issues that must be taken into account are time constraints, availability of resources, and how many data are necessary in order to make an informed decision about the quality of a student's performance. Finally, after the assessment task is determined, the elements of the task that determine the measure of success of the student's performance need to be defined. Sometimes, these can be found in so-called job profiles. Most of the time, teachers have to analyse skills or products to identify performance criteria upon which to judge achievement, which is not an easy task. Criteria should be significant, specifying important performance components, represent standards that would apply naturally to determine the quality of performance when it typically occurs (Quellmalz, 1991). The criteria must be communicated clearly to, and be able to be understood by, all involved. Communicating information about performance criteria provides a basis for the improvement of that performance. When a teacher has passed through this procedure, study tasks can be designed in which students are prepared for the performance assessment. These study tasks are directly related to the performance assessment task at the end of the course. Designing Courses in Which Peer Assessment is Integrated According to Sluijsmans, Dochy, and Moerkerke (1999), teacher educators should be supported in the design of learning activities in which peer assessment is integrated. Stiggins's (1987) abovementioned design guidelines are helpful. Step 1 of the design process is to define the purpose of a course. It should be emphasized that a course that includes peer assessment tasks contains multiple learning goals. The performance of the student at the end of the course is content related and can be labelled as thefirst order goal of a course. Acquiring peer assessment skills is subsequently integrated as a higher order goal in a particular course. Students learn to evaluate the course content-related performances of peers at the end of a course. Peer assessment can thus be considered as a performance assessment that is superimposed on the content-related performance assessment. When the acquisition of peer assessment skills is one of the purposes of a course, students should be capable, at the end of the course, of making arrangements in which they negotiate with students of similar status about the design and appropriate criteria of specific study tasks and performances. Each student should also be able to take the responsibility to make critical judgements about the performances of a peer applying the appropriate criteria. It should be noted that peer assessment skills are not easily and automatically acquired. Peer assessment is considered a complex skill that needs to be developed (Birenbaum, 1996; Reilly Freese, 1999; Sluijsmans, Dochy, Moerkerke, & Van




Constructing the caring higher education teacher: A theoretical framework Caroline Walker* , Alan Gleaves School of Education, Durham University, Leazes Road, Durham, DH11TA, UK highlights  We theorize pedagogic caring within a higher education environment.  The study uses the perspectives of the teachers concerned.  The methodology utilizes reputational case selection and grounded theory.  There is scarce research into caring teachers in higher education.  University caring is a function of personal belief and institutional philosophy. article info Article history: Received 16 March 2015 Received in revised form 9 November 2015 Accepted 25 November 2015 Available online xxx Keywords: Teachers Higher education Caring Pedagogy Grounded theory abstract This study seeks to theorize ‘the caring teacher’ in the context of the higher education environment. The study was carried out from the perspective of the teachers concerned and adopted an inductive interpretive paradigm and within this, used grounded theory processes and techniques. Emergent categories comprised: a relationship at the centre; compelled to care; caring as resistance; and finally, caring as less than. The four categories were combined in the construction of an integrative model to theorize the teacher in higher education who privileges caring within their pedagogy, from the perspective of the
. Literature review In pedagogic terms, practitioners, teachers and tutors alike are obliged to care (Noddings, 2003; Thayer-Bacon & Bacon, 1996; Wilcox, Winn, & Fyvie-Gauld, 2005). The concept of caring as the basis of a mindful teacherestudent relationship is enshrined in the professional standards of education systems worldwide, and evident in the foregoing descriptions of professional practice is care in its diversely relational forms, as human concern, moral responsibility, individual attentiveness and personal responsiveness. Primary and secondary schooling teachers in the UK for example have both common law and statutory duties of care explicit within the Secretary of State's guidelines and the UK Teachers' Standards and they must, ‘build relationships rooted in mutual respect’ (DfE, 2013, p.14). In the USA, the California Standards for the Teaching Profession exemplify Standard 1 e ‘Engaging and Supporting All Students in Learning’, by requiring the use of knowledge of students to engage them in learning, and specifically asks teachers to ‘build trust with students and foster relationships so that students can thrive academically’ (CSTP, 2009, p.5). Similarly, the New Zealand Practicing Teacher Criteria have as their first key indicator of fully certificated teachers' practice ‘To engage in ethical, respectful, positive and collaborative professional relationships with learners’ (New Zealand Education Council, 2015). Furthermore, in the Task Force for Teaching Excellence Report to the Minister of Education in the Government of Alberta, Canada (2014), participants in the consultations said that excellent teachers are: Compassionate, empathetic, caring, kind, understanding, and relationship builders. For example, a student participating in Task Force consultations said: “Truly having a good teacher is to be able to connect with him or her and their teaching method. More than just the way he or she teaches, but on a personal level as well. To be able to connect with someone will truly make it easier to understand what they are saying and to comprehend material in depth”. (p.19) However, the place of relationships, especially caring ones, internationally within higher education is far less clear and their discourse within the sphere of professional obligation is markedly different. For example, under the UK Professional Standards Framework for Higher Education, academics must ‘develop effective learning environments and approaches to student support and guidance’ and ‘respect individual learners and diverse learning communities’ (HEA, 2013, p.3). In the context of the USA, the Council for the Advancement of Standards in Higher Education Studies (2006) only requires higher education teachers to create educational environments that are ‘safe and secure’ and to be ‘trustworthy and maintain confidentiality’ within the arena of teaching effectively but there is no overt and explicit mention of constructing attachments or of building bonds or the reasons for doing so, as with other professional frameworks. Although there are very few studies in the area of teacherestudent relationships in general in higher education, and within these, even fewer on caring relationships, such studies as they exist have repeatedly suggested that creating purposeful relationships within higher education is critical to student learning (Bergin & Bergin, 2009; Deakin Crick, McCombs, & Haddon, 2007; Hagenauer & Volet, 2014a). Furthermore, research appears to suggest that caring relationships in particular are of great salience to students, who appear in such studies to be convinced of their educational impact and thus that teachers in higher education should by extension, be ‘caring’ (Walker , Gleaves, & Grey, 2006; Docan-Morgan, 2011; Hixenbaugh & Thomas, 2006). Qualitative studies analyzing the nature of caring teaching in practice (Walker et al., 2006; Dallavis, 2014; Edwards & D’Arcy, 2004; Goldstein, 1999; Larson & Silverman, 2005; Velasquez et al., 2013) establish the extensive relational nature of pedagogic care, suggesting that caring teachers have particular ‘exemplifiers’ in their practices including the ability to: listen to students, show empathy, support students, actively support students' learning, give students appropriate and meaningful praise, have high expectations of work and behavior, and finally, show an active concern in students' personal lives. However, the research that exists in this field does not expose which of these exemplifiers are more significant in the construction of the ‘caring’ teacher. This study, by seeking the teachers' perspectives on pedagogic care, and allowing possible muddiness between motivations and practices to emerge, offers a rich account of what these exemplifiers mean in a higher education contact, and as such, given the complexity of delineating the ‘good’ and ‘caring’ teacher, is an important contribution to the literature. We can assert that pedagogic care manifests itself at several different levels simultaneously, with individual ‘caring’ teachers constructing a complex web of intentions and actions (Goldstein & Lake, 2003). But what emerges from the literature is the variation in the degree to which such teachers create the conditions, or in some cases, take responsibility for, students' eventual achievements. Related to this, there is evidence to suggest that ‘caring’ teachers define learning outcomes more diversely and in make fewer distinctions between cognition and emotion as they impact upon learning. Such a vision of teaching is articulated by Rendon (2009)  as ‘sentipensante pedagogy’ that involves the ability to see the 66 C. Walker, A. Gleaves / Teaching and Teacher Education 54 (2016) 65e76 connections between seeming opposites, such as thinking and feeling. Within these studies, it appears that caring teachers appear to be motivated to do all that is possible to maximize a student's chance of success and the literature attests to the means by which individual teachers carefully articulate and precisely fashion their caring philosophies and practices (Larson, 2006; Noddings, 1986; O'Connor, 2008; Weston & McAlpine, 1998; Zembylas, Bozalek, & Shefer, 2014). However, there are limitations within the current research, and these lead to an imperfect understanding of the nature of pedagogic care, the distinctions between care in practice and the rationales and motivations of teachers who care, particularly in higher education. First, teacher care studies to date have tended to focus on particular groups of recipients of caring, emphasizing the cultural responsiveness element of pedagogic care actions. As such, the field is replete with studies of teachers whose care has empowered and liberated particular students through pedagogies of critical emancipation (Barber, 2002; Lippke, 2012; Monzo & Rueda, 2001; Robson & Bailey, 2009; Wilcox et al., 2005). Yet such studies have rarely occupied themselves with the possibility of transfer of findings to other students, nor of explicating the precise nature of emancipatory care and how it may differ from care as an antecedent of understanding students' learning progress more generally. There is also scarce empirical research identifying the broader contextual dimensions of being a caring teacher in relation to the diverse institutional settings in which teaching and academic work occurs in higher education, since the majority of scholarship is located in studies on school teachers' caring. Research that examines the tensions between particular types of activity, particularly when seen through the lens of the gendered nature of much teaching and academic work (Walker et al., 2006; Harley, 2003; Hauver James, 2012; Mariskind, 2014; Zembylas et al., 2014) would be particularly significant, especially given claims about the feminization of higher education in the UK (Morley & Lugg, 2009), and in particular the tensions between the pedagogic structures that purport to support and nurture diverse student bodies more responsively in the service of key National Student Survey metrics, but in doing so, supposedly reduce valuable research time and thus potentially impact on national Research Excellence Frameworks and ultimately the status of the university (Leathwood & Read, 2009). Another issue that stands behind the motivation for this study concerns the nature of the literature on pedagogic care and what this communicates about the meaning and status of care as a mechanism to effect change, not just in pedagogic, but also social terms within education more generally. Whilst caring has for a very long time been associated with a form of character education for particular forms of society (Nowak-Fabrykowski, 2012), research is increasingly concerned with the impact of teacher care on student outcomes (Ferreira & Bosworth, 2001; Larson, 2006; Wentzel, 1997) and particularly pro-social related ones (Jennings & Greenberg, 2009). The reasons are in many cases instrumental, and both impact upon school and district measures of institutional performance, and affect pupils themselves. For example, students are increasingly under pressure from forms of social activity that place them at risk, such as cyberbullying, gang membership and drug use (McCuaig, 2012; Muller, 2001). At the same time, students are pressurized to perform more resiliently, and within higher education, to more robust academic standards and with better progression outcomes of all kinds (Dallavis, 2014; Fitzmaurice, 2008; Rivera-McCutchen, 2012). In the context of higher education, such issues emerge as a battle for the soul of the student, with learning outcomes such as resilience, persistence and prevalence for example, frequently regarded as adjunct to the business of learning, and thus as ‘soft’ and optional but outcomes such as knowledge gained, or grades achieved, as ‘hard’ and thus more worthy (Zepke & Leach, 2010). By extension, teacher behaviors that privilege the latter exert a greater power in research terms, since they hold the promise of linking particular pedagogic practices to such coveted outcomes. This research has as its purpose the development of a theoretical model of the caring higher education teacher from the teachers' perspectives themselves. It also seeks to identify and explore factors that affect the nature and practice of pedagogic care within higher education. A process of reputational case selection was used to identify caring higher education teachers and these were then interviewed multiple times in order to identify the individual encompassment of caring teaching, from motivation, through intention, to action and consequence. It is important to point out that the study aim was not to investigate the definition of pedagogic care as such, and nor was it the intention of the study to evaluate the impact of care on student learning outcomes, but to illuminate the issues that a teacher classified as ‘caring’ would perceive to be significant in espousing and practicing pedagogic caring. This paper will explore the methodological process that was followed and as a result, will then present the emergent theoretical framework. Illustrative data will be presented alongside the representation. 3. Research design 3.1. Methodological approach This study adopted an inductive interpretive approach, utilizing a qualitative design in order to establish how teachers in higher education perceive pedagogic care and as such, establish a caring environment in their teaching and learning e in other words, how they become and exist as ‘caring teachers’. Within this study, it was essential that teachers' beliefs and intentions emerged through as naturalistic process as possible, minimizing the impact of prior assumptions and expectations. Experiences of care and caring as recounted by teachers and students alike give rise to palpable tensions between emotions, hopes and fears and the personal, political, economic and social contexts of education. Building upon these considerations, the research design chosen for this study is an interpretive analytical one, where the researchers attempt to understand and explain the participants' experiences, whilst acknowledging the ‘entanglement’ (DeMarrais & Tisdale, 2002) of the participants within the subject themselves. In analytical terms, the study employed the Grounded Theoretical approach (Glaser, 1978; Glaser & Strauss, 1967; Strauss & Corbin, 1990, 1998) in order that theory could be constructed inductively from the systematic interpretation of the data. Ethical approval to conduct the study was provided by the researchers' home university as well as the university under study. It was sought at the latter university to ensure absolute transparency of research processes given the possibly reputational impact that the studies' findings could have upon the academics within the study. 3.2. Selection of the participants Selecting the participants is a particularly significant element of the process of grounded theory research since it represents the core conceptual structures that stand behind the ultimate development of the theoretical model. Consequently, the nature of the process of sampling, ‘theoretical sampling’, is very particular and carries with it, specific structural meaning. In essence, sampling in grounded theory proceeds on the basis of adherence of the participants to theory, rather than as individuals with associated subjectivities C. Walker, A. Gleaves / Teaching and Teacher Education 54 (2016) 65e76 67 (Strauss and Corbin, 1990). However, due to the context of this research, a complex procedure for selection and sampling was designed that balanced the methodological rigor of grounded theory, with the conceptual complexity of care pedagogy. This process will now be outlined. For this study, participants were selected using Reputational Case Selection. A sample of six purposeful ‘cases’ was selected within a Faculty of Social Sciences at a large university in the North of England, UK. All the participants were nominated by knowledgeable professionals in their field, a process known as ‘Reputational Case Selection’ (LeCompte & Preissle, 1993). Caring is a complex phenomenon to investigate using the beliefs and experiences of academics themselves yet utilizing student feedback in assessing such a subjective quality as a means to identifying academics in the first place is also unreliable. ‘Reputational Case Selection’ seeks to militate against these difficulties by harnessing ‘expert’ and ‘professional’ judgments on subjectivities, where possibilities of bias and favoritism are minimized. As a result of the selection, literature is then used to ‘ground’ the claims for inclusion in the study. In the case of this study, the experts and professionals were defined as Faculty Colleagues and members of the University Promotions and Conferment Committee; in all cases the staff providing judgment were familiar with academics' work. A letter was sent to the experts concerned, briefly discussing the purpose of the study and asking each to recommend a caring faculty academic and indicate the reasons they considered the academic to be caring. Seventy-two responses out of a possible ninety-seven were obtained, thus representing 74.2% of the total respondents. These responses generated the nomination of fifteen individuals along with recommendations for each in the form of short paragraphs. Each of the recommendations was then scrutinized in terms of the level of agreement of their written testimonials with the literature on caring teachers and academics, specifically the pedagogical behavioral ‘caring exemplifiers’ of:  Listening to students  Showing empathy  Supporting students  Actively fostering learning in class  Giving appropriate and encouraging feedback and praise  Having high expectations in standards of work and behavior  Showing an active concern in students' personal lives These were essential in serving the purposes of the research, since they formed the theoretical criteria necessary to establish the sample for the study, thereby ‘grounding’ the research, albeit acknowledging their conceptual difficulties as outlined earlier. Secondly, the use of student-generated judgments within the literature ultimately contributed to the validity of the ‘cases’ selected, since it provided checks and balances to any skewing of recommendations due a particularly unusual or subject-specific interpretation of care and caring. The participant recommendations were then analyzed with respect to whether their nominations matched all of these and the process generated seven participants. These were then contacted about participating in the research as ‘caring academics’. Out of these, one declined to be part of the research and six subsequently became part of the project and stayed throughout the whole period of the study. 3.3. The interview process Rossman and Rallis (2003) assert that the interview is ‘the hallmark of qualitative research’ (p. 180). Interviewing is a method tthrough which one gains understanding of the participant's world through experiencing their speech and response. Within this research study, the research purposes encompass past beliefs and experiences and present identities and practices. In addition, the research seeks to elicit the perceptions of a particular concept, pedagogic care. As such, the interviews required a systematic structure that was thorough but allowed for probing and provocative questions. The study adopted a four-interview schedule that utilized two interview ‘frames’ that complemented and overlapped. One aligned strongly with the interpretive nature of the inquiry and served the purpose of understanding and explaining the research participants' experiences from the ‘inside’ (Charmaz, 1995), by illuminating the meaning that higher education teachers assigned to the concept of caring. The other frame was predicated upon a storied identity utilizing Seidman’s (1998) three-stage model and which afforded the participants and the researchers appropriate space in which to build theory inductively and insightfully. Specifically, each interview drew upon a life stage in each participant's development, and used this as a basis to explore elements of pedagogic care from the teachers' perspectives. As an example, the first interview was subtitled ‘On being perceived as a caring teacher in higher education’, and sample questions included:  What factors do you think were commonly used in identifying you as a caring teacher? (Common factors will be shared with the participant). Do you recognize yourself in them? How?  Do you personally consider caring to be an intrinsic part of your teaching or academic work? How?  What differences, if there are any, could you identify in yourself, according to your experience, between when you knowingly care about your students, and when you're not conscious of it? The second interview concerned the theme ‘Being a caring teacher’, and example questions included ‘If I went into a typical class of yours, what might I expect to see you doing?’ and ‘What does the way that you organize your classes say about your beliefs?’. The third interview was focused on ‘Becoming a caring teacher’ and sample questions included How did you become a university teacher?’ and ‘Why did you choose university teaching over other sorts?’. Importantly however, a fourth interview was carried out at the end of the study, what Seidman (1998) refers to as a ‘reflection on meaning’ (p. 12) interview. In this interview, participants were asked to reflect on their perceptions of themselves in terms of the conceptual basis of care in their work. In all, twentyfour interviews, four with each of the participants, were conducted over a period of fourteen months. Interview durations were variable, but most lasted no more than 70 min, with occasional ones lasting 90 min. During the interviews and meetings, digital recorders were used to record speech, and these recordings were transcribed as quickly as possible afterwards. Transcriptions were offered to each participant after their interviews to confirm or clarify data, and support an additional element of the study's validity. 3.4. The participants The subjects for the research were varied in the experiences, their ages, their disciplines and their positions within the university. Each participant was invited to choose a pseudonym based upon some aspect of their teacher identity that they wished to encapsulate. Their demographic details are shown in Table 1. 3.5. Coding processes and outcomes The interviews in this study were transcribed and analyzed 68 C. Walker, A. Gleaves / Teaching and Teacher Education 54 (2016) 65e76 according to the constant comparison method (Strauss & Corbin, 1990). This adopted the sequence of Open Coding, Axial Coding and Selective Coding, with the overall aim of being ‘theoretically sensitive’ (Glaser, 1978). In the open coding procedure, data were examined closely and carefully by both researchers, with the aim of identifying with as much reliability as possible, participants' thoughts, feelings, motivations and values, in relation to the particular themes mentioned in the interviews. The emergent codes were as faithful as possible to words and phrases used in the interviews, and resembled as closely as possible the original intentions and contexts. This was a critical stage in construction of semantic sensitivity within the transcripts and codes. The emergent codes (there were 372) were then compared to establish their descriptive content and to confirm that they were faithfully grounded in the data. The next stage, axial coding, consisted of the structuring of the codes into categories. Constant comparison formed the basis of this stage, where categories were compared with each other, and in addition, between codes, interview themes, and interview responses, especially in connection with the underpinning relationships between codes. Broadly, these referred to whether the sub-categories were causal (specifying actions or incidents that led to the phenomenon under study); contextual (specifying the characteristics that describe the phenomenon); and finally, intervening, or the issues and structures that facilitate or impede the phenomenon. The final stage of the process, concerned the use of selective coding, whereby categories were clarified and then structured according to a form of narrative to give a holistic meaning to the data, and which therefore culminated in the construction of a theory of pedagogic caring in higher education. 4. Findings The categories emerging out of the analytical process in this study comprised: a relationship at the centre; compelled to care; caring as resistance; and caring as less than. For each category we now present a discussion of the sub-categories with exemplifying quotes. A schematic of the main categorical structure in the research is shown in Table 2. 4.1. A relationship at the centre ‘A relationship at the centre’ was a powerful category in the teachers' responses. In this study, the participants showed the most explicit attention to relational matters and reflected critically on every nuance of their behavior if it could feasibly affect their students, their pedagogies being centered almost solely on understanding the act of teaching as a principal causal means of making learning happen at a deep and sustained level. One code illustrates the fact that relational teaching for these teachers rests on specific pedagogic theories allied to trust, openness and reciprocity that create environments for academic discomfort and critical thought. Mirelle described her ideas on this: I choose to disclose information in class to create trust explicitly. If they can't trust me, then they can't trust me to give them help to learn, to grow. Other codes exposed the notion that each academic's teaching environment was shaped toward fostering harmony that would ultimately serve the purposes of establishing the most conducive and intimate relationship to further the ends of their pedagogy as deeply entrenched theoretical orientations. Mirelle went on to say how this was achieved: Reflexivity is what I do, I put myself out there, I send messages to provoke a response, ask how my students are coping, feeling, but I am painfully aware of its consequences, I'm making those particular consequences happen, because doing that, having those bonds, is the nuts and bolts of learning how to be critical and discriminate. Looked at in this way, all the participants created their environments as forms of what might be termed ‘macro’ level responseability in the way that they had great knowledge about their students' contexts. Charity reiterated this many times: I try to know the ins and the outs of the students. In one case, one had cancer mid way and I visited her in hospital and wrote letters, long letters discussing her work. The participants presented testimony that they were engaged in teaching as a sociocultural activity, one where as a result of various forms of engrossment, negotiated through their relationships, all sought to create in their students not simply forms of knowledge or development of skills, but forms of different ‘being’: these were evident in the sub-categories of extensive beliefs about teaching and learning and the nature and purpose of both. Charity exemplifies this as: Every bit of that class I remember so richly, it was one of those classes where you can't imagine how your relationship could have been any better or how you could get to know them any more. Sometimes I remember feeling sick during class, it was as if it were a drug I was on; the students seemed to respond to and fill every fragment of caring that I ‘did’ and ultimately began to change themselves. Intervening codes exemplified the personal barriers to maintaining caring philosophies when personal feelings conspired against them. Participants unpicked facets of pedagogic relationships and counseling-type interactions and emphasized that blurring boundaries was a relational pedagogical hazard. As Fenella suggested: We're so used, as academics, to having as a default, a view of learning and teaching that encompasses cognition and little else, that anything else at all, seems a radical departure, a sort of the boundaries. It was clearly critical to all of them that they were involved in actively making the students ‘different’ and consequently, failure to do so was an important code, whether through students failing to persist or succeed despite the investing of emotional labor, or whether through personal shame that a student fails to thrive academically despite adherence to pedagogic ideals. Policies could be harnessed to reassure participants that although student support for example was institutionally important, it may not always provide desired outcomes in terms of student achievement. Institutional Codes within the ‘relationship’ category thus recognized tensions between the needs of the academy as against the imperatives of contemporary student-hood. 4.2. Compelled to care A compulsion to care was a category of great and explicit salience for the participants in this research but codes illustrated the complexity and frequent contradiction of the teachers' intentions and motivations. Charity was strongly aware of this: I suppose that I take a very interrupting view of teaching in that it's there to make students different. And that's not coming from the perspective of especially student-centred principles. Not really. Scaffolding, but not as passive assisting to learn, God no (laughs). Aggressive scaffolding if you like, so that I find a way to facilitate whatever counts as learning. One group of responses concerned professed intended pedagogic views of caring teaching that reflected individuals' naturally affective tendencies and preferences. Such ideas were often developed through participants' own training but shaped and sharpened through the lens of institutional discourse, forcing academics to hold polarized views of on the one hand, learning as a purely cognitive developmental matter, yet at the same time, to somehow be aware of the emotional impact of learning, especially in relation to student retention. As Eachann put it: The whole concept of caring to me is the complete rejection of the dualist sort of thinking that says ‘you can give students knowledge when they're sad, happy, nice to them, horrible to them, because it's the knowledge that counts'. It just doesn't work like that. I think that it's an absolute critical bit of learning that students see that emotion and being a human and learning, to be the ultimate intellectual and scholar I suppose, is all mixed together, it can be absolutely desperate but it's absolutely necessary. He went on to say that: I think, though I can't prove it of course, that what I do makes a huge difference to whether students prevail … I make it impossible for students to even want to leave … not impossible to leave, but to not want to leave … That kind of governs what I do … it can't be otherwise … what would be the point? They wouldn't be achieving anything if they weren't here anyway, so they kind of have to be here to be affected, it doesn't matter how. The code of evidence in relation to how personal teaching experience impacted upon the perceptions of participants was significant: all the teachers however experienced or novice, appeared to be vigilant as to responding to students' needs modifying them toward student centredness over time, suggesting a tendency to mediate experience through a very specific lens. Such a journey was described by Jud: When I first went a course about teaching in higher education, there was a lot of focus on student diversity and being student centred, but the more you do it … teach … the more you realize, Table 2 The study's categorical data structure. Category Causal sub-category Contextual sub-category Intervening sub-category A relationship at the centre Beliefs about learning Beliefs about the nature of teaching Primacy of theories Impact of teacher's own training Knowing all students' names quickly Responding rapidly to queries Sending solicitous emails in the context of students' difficulties Having well developed strategies and policies at individual level Institutional responsive policies Personal feelings of failure Muddying boundaries Compelled to care Explicit belief system Personal action-related evidence Explicit pedagogic values Working to support students at all hours and times Finding ways to facilitate student learning Being explicit in all aspects of student equality and diversity Love of teaching Exhaustion Confusion over roles Occupational freedom Fear and lack of security in other occupational areas such as research Caring as resistance Need for autonomy Paradigmatic dissonance (teachingresearch nexus) Spiritual/ethical dissonance Questioning academic processes Defending students in boards of studies Subverting processes to assist the students Sympathetic colleagues Disciplinary support Contractual issues Personal familial support Mental fortitude Caring as less than Institutional policies Personal experience of academia Discursive construction of the academic Emotive work is women's work Time dedicated to student support in timetable Researching over teaching Defending promotions/awards Moving to a different institution Countering explicit discourse of colleagues Doing action research Student retention Student persistence Students' acknowledgement When students involve you in their lives, weddings, christenings, funerals Research/time conflict Publishing top rated research Promotions Awards Working at an elite university External metrics 70 C. Walker, A. Gleaves / Teaching and Teacher Education 54 (2016) 65e76 it comes to you, that actually that's all about control and coercion. Real student centeredness is in listening, hearing what you don't want to hear as well as what you do. You find a way. I think you can't not (emphasizes word) find a way. The codes demonstrate that ideals and visions of teaching are resilient, despite collisions of images and beliefs from participants' own personal view of what teaching should be, and the complex social and cultural stage that they find in the classroom. Charity found this difficult to talk about, and as she said: Oh, I don't know why I was chosen, just tell me a few … no show me the whole lot … no, I don't really want to know. What sort of general thrust is there? Is there a concentration on kind of the academic stuff, so that I don't come over as an ‘earth mother’ (laughs) - that's what I've been called. I feel as if you're not supposed to be caring or at least admit to it as intent. I think that it's being kind, warm, expects a lot, demands a lot, can be cruel. Codes in the causal and intervening sub-categories converge in relation to the major category of ‘compelled to care’. The participants brought with them myriad personal histories that included beliefs about the activities and processes of teaching within higher education, the attributes and knowledge demands of academics, and the expected attitudes and behaviors of teachers working within the higher education context. These expectations frequently caused confusion of roles however, and created insecurity particularly when incidents relating to their care had seemed to expose the academics, in which case they resorted to different types of behavior and activity to somehow ‘normalise’ their caring. The codes in the contextual category revealed that all of the participants in this study had lives that criss-crossed with elements of social justice issues, and considered that their activities outside formal academic structures were as important as their academic work and all sought actively to be involved in the lives of students and the university and its wider community. All of the participants presented a clear image of themselves at the outset, and there was great clarity in the expression of the various factors that served to both undermine and rigidly defend their compulsion to care, all codes being expressed in forcefully descriptive language: a love of teaching, freedom to be yourself, exhaustion with their role, confusion over their role, and fear about not performing. As exemplified by Fenella, such overwhelming compulsion is all enveloping and almost spiritual in its experiencing: I adore that my work is just about a total immersion and I make no apology for the rigour and the shoutiness that I expect of my students. Ha! Sometimes I can't think straight between feeling elated when we've hit on something together, or when I realize something as I'm teaching, but other times, I feel confused over what I'm here to do e to give of myself, like, to serve, or to be, and in being, to provoke. It's frightening and confusing

